What Does Climate Change Have to Do with It?

If Hurricane Harvey had happened at the end of the 20th century, that amount of rain falling in Houston in a single storm would have been rare—a 1-in-2,000-year event, said Kerry Emanuel, an MIT professor of atmospheric sciences. But as temperatures continue to rise, those rare events are becoming increasingly less rare, he said.

There are myriad reasons why individual storms develop as they do, including a combination of natural and manmade causes. That can make it hard to assess what role climate may have played in an individual storm (though the science behind attribution studies is getting better all the time). What scientists who study hurricanes are confident in, though, is the underlying physics that show that warmer temperatures are among the factors changing the way that storms form.

According to the 2014 National Climate Assessment, the intensity, frequency and duration of North Atlantic hurricanes have increased since the early 1980s. The frequency of the strongest storms—category 4 and 5 hurricanes—has increased too.

How Do Warmer Oceans Feed Hurricanes?

NOAA releases its annual Atlantic hurricane outlook each spring, in advance of the hurricane season that starts on June 1. This year, the agency had to update that outlook in August with an expectation of even more storms, due in part to warmer surface water temperatures.

Surface temperatures in the eastern half of the tropical Atlantic Ocean were between 0.5°C and 1°C above average this summer, as the NOAA maps below of the sea surface temperature (SST) anomalies from mid-July to early September show. 
Why So Much Rainfall in Houston?

Those higher temperatures don't just result in more intense wind speeds. Warmer air also retains more water vapor, which can result in dramatic rainfall like what happened during Hurricane Harvey.

In the case of Harvey, the rain volume was exacerbated by the fact that the storm stalled over the Houston area, bringing days of relentless downpours. The storm was surrounded by two high pressure systems, which essentially locked the storm in place. "Meteorologically, Southeast Texas, at the time, was pretty much a giant stop sign," Weather.com meteorologist Jonathan Belles told the Houston Chronicle. By the time the storm moved out, the National Weather Service had recorded 51.88 inches of rain near Mont Belvieu, Texas—a record for rainfall from a single storm in the continental U.S.

This stalling is a frequent feature of extreme events, but at this point, scientists have not found a conclusive link to climate change. There may be a connection, though, according to climate scientist Michael Mann. "More tenuous, but possibly relevant still, is the fact that very persistent, nearly 'stationary' summer weather patterns of this sort, where weather anomalies (both high pressure dry hot regions and low-pressure stormy/rainy regions) stay locked in place for many days at a time, appears to be favored by human-caused climate change," he wrote in a Facebook post late last month.

What Are the Biggest Threats from Irma?

The big fear with Irma is the wind. The National Hurricane Center was reporting sustained winds of 185 mph on Wednesday and gusts even higher. Those wind speeds are similar to Hurricane Wilma, the 2005 storm that resulted in at least 62 deaths and an estimated $29.4 billion in damage, of which $21 billion occurred in the United States.
Another concern is the storm surge that can accompany hurricanes. Riding on top of sea levels that have risen due to climate change, Irma's surge could be particularly dangerous. The National Hurricane Center warned Wednesday of storm surges as high as 20 feet above normal tide levels in the Turks and Caicos Islands and the Southeastern Bahamas.