Irene could become hurricane, hit Mid-Atlantic

01:24 PM CDT on Friday, August 12, 2005

Bloomberg News

Tropical Storm Irene may strengthen into a hurricane today, as forecasters said residents from Virginia to Massachusetts should prepare for the storm's arrival next week.

“It'll become a hurricane either later today or early tomorrow,” Chris Sisko, a meteorologist at the National Hurricane Center in Miami, said in an interview today.

Irene is expected to move toward North Carolina over the next few days, according to predictions from the National Hurricane Center. High air pressure near this part of the southeastern coast may direct the storm toward the Mid-Atlantic states, Richard Pasch, a hurricane specialist at the center, said.

Irene was about 700 miles (1,126 kilometers) southeast of Cape Hatteras, North Carolina, according to an advisory on the center's Web site at 11 a.m. New York time. It was about 300 miles south-southwest of Bermuda. With maximum sustained winds near 65 mph (104 kph), the storm was moving northwest near 13 mph.

It is forecast to pass between the Bahamas and Bermuda tomorrow.

Tropical Storm Irene isn't expected to strengthen beyond a so-called Category 1 storm, the weakest intensity on a five-tier scale. A Category 1 storm packs winds of 74 mph to 95 mph and causes minimal damage.

U.S. forecasters last week said the season will be worse than previously predicted, producing as many as 21 tropical storms, 11 of which may become hurricanes. That compares with a forecast in May of 12 to 15 named storms and seven to nine hurricanes.

Irene is the ninth named storm of this year's Atlantic hurricane season. Storms are named when sustained winds reach 39 mph. A hurricane is a storm with sustained winds of least 74 mph.

Dennis and Emily, the fourth and fifth named storms of the June 1 to Nov. 30 season, cut a swathe through the Caribbean and Gulf of Mexico in July, forcing evacuations from homes and oil facilities and causing almost $2 billion in damage. 