Paper Reports Big Increase in Amphetamine Trade

The total number of amphetamines expected to be 
circulated nationwide this year could touch an astonishing 1.25 billion tablets, 
PM's Office Minister Veerakorn Kamprakob said.
The figure was reached from estimates provided by the Office of the Narcotics 
Control Board (ONCB).

The figure of Bt125 billion worth of the drug at a retail price of Bt100 per 
tablet, comes after a fivefold increase in reported use of the drug over the 
past three years, he said.
Around a million tablets were taken in 1994 and this increased to five million 
the following year. The same rate of increase brought the estimated use to 25 
million in 1996, according to the ONCB estimate.
However, the office estimates that this figure is only ten per cent of the 
actual number of tablets taken nationwide. Thus, the 1997 estimate, which will 
touch 125 million tablets based on the fivefold phenomenon, could actually be in 
the region of 1.25 billion tablets.
Veerakorn said he has learned that small business owners in the major provinces 
have turned to the amphetamine trade, using it as a sideline venture to boost 
their income.

He added that Prime Minister Chavalit Yongchaiyudh has agreed to his proposal to 
equip all provincial authorities with testing equipment to quickly examine 
tablets that are seized from suspected amphetamine dealers.
Veerakorn said that in the past, drug tests had to be conducted in Bangkok due 
to the complexity of the required technology, often resulting in suspects 
escaping justice through negotiations between police and local politicians.
"With the new equipment, I think suspected amphetamine dealers will be 
prosecuted the day they are arrested, preventing them from talking their way to 
freedom," he said.

Veerakorn, who oversees the ONCB said he will also ask Chavalit to assign local 
military officers to operate the equipment. "Civilians could be threatened and 
intimidated by suspects," he reasoned.
ONCB secretary-general Preecha Champarat said amphetamine abuse is unlikely to 
decrease, although production of the drug has dropped following crackdowns.
The reason, he said, is that amphetamine dealers have instead turned to 
smuggling from minority-group manufacturers living in neighbouring countries. 
"It is much easier for the dealers and exposes them to less risk of capture," he 
said.

Preecha said the largest source of the drug comes from Burmese minority groups, 
smuggled through major outlets in Chiang Mai and Chiang Rai.
He said the ONCB has found that the major smuggling routes of amphetamines into 
the country, both as tablets and raw material, includes Klong Toey Port, Chon 
Buri and Trat. He said he has intensified surveillance and arrests in these 
areas.

Unprocessed substances are received by production sources nationwide, including 
Chachoengsao -- the largest production source so far -- for processing before 
distribution to dealers throughout the country, he said.
ONCB executives spent their latest inspection trip in Sing Buri earlier this 
month and found the drug situation there had worsened. Amphetamine dealers from 
nearby provinces have returned to the area to continue their business after the 
crackdowns.

Governor Wiphat Khongmalai said most dealers in the province are small time and 
that there were few producers living in his jurisdiction.
But he admitted to a growing worry that the drug is now being abused in schools, 
quoting a statistic that 7.45 per cent of all students in the province are drug 
addicts.