Amphetamine Production in Former Khun Sa Area Reported

Ban Ho Mong, the former headquarters of Khun Sa, is now 
a major clandestine amphetamine laboratory, according to an informed source.
Besides Ban Ho Mong, the drug is also being produced along the Thai-Burmese 
border and in northern Burma near the Chinese border.
These clandestine factories are run by the same gangs that used to run the 
heroin networks in Thailand.
To maintain their secret operation, the drug mafia in Ban Ho Mong bribed some 
officials in charge of the town, claimed the source, who sells goods to border 
villages.

Most of the people at Ban Ho Mong are of the Shan minority and many of them, 
along with some Burmese soldiers guarding the border. are addicted to the drug. 
Corrupt Burmese officials have warned the drug mafia to be cautious in selling 
the drug to Thai traders. If the Thai traders are arrested by Thai authorities, 
they may reveal the source of amphetamines, they said.
Burmese authorities once raided the house of a well-known Shan in Ban Mong Mai, 
also in the vicinity of Ban Ho Mong township. Three pill stamping machines and 
amphetamine pills were confiscated, the source said.
However, the suspect was freed after a former senior officer of the Mong Tai 
Army told the Burmese officials that the suspect was a long-time adviser to the 
MTA.

The source claimed that some Thai businessmen in Mae Hong Son also financed the 
drug operation at Ban Ho Mong. They delivered their money to the drug gang every 
three months.
The pills are smuggled into Thailand through several border passes at Ban Huay 
Phueng and Ban Mailun in Muang district and through several secret trails at Ban 
Khai Luang in the Pang Ma Pha district of Mae Hong Son.
Most of the amphetamines produced at Ban Ho Mong and other laboratories are sent 
to Ban Mae Suya in the Muang district of Mae Hong Son. From there, they are 
delivered to Chiang Mai by road or on foot.
At Ban Ho Mong, buyers of large shipments (over 100,000 pills) pay 12 baht per 
pill. For smaller shipments, the price per pill is higher.
A courier who conveys a weekly shipment of over 100,000 pills to the Thai 
financier is paid between 5,000 and 10,000 baht.
The source said that Thai amphetamine producers from Lampang and Phrae have been 
hired to train Khun Sa's followers as well as the Thai syndicates associated 
with the former warlord. Production machines were also allegedly smuggled from 
Thailand.

Mong Thai Army dissidents are also involved in the production and provide 
protection for the drug mafia in areas controlled by Burmese soldiers. They use 
the money to carry on their fight for autonomy from the Rangoon Government, the 
source said.
Reports about amphetamine production at Ban Ho Mong were confirmed by Mr Bunpot 
Piamdee, chief of the Northern Narcotics Control Centre under the Office of 
Narcotics Control Board. But Mr Bunpot said there were no more than 20 labs 
along the border and not 80-100 as earlier reported.
He said many followers of Khun Sa turned to amphetamine production along the 
Thai-Burmese border in Mae Hong Son and Chiang Rai. Thai narcotics control 
officials raided a heroin refinery at the border in Pang Ma Pha district 
opposite Ban Ho Mong in April last year and found amphetamine pill-stamping 
machines there.
A month later, two Thais who went to collect forest produce at the border in 
Chiang Rai's Ma Fah Luang district were found shot dead with their hands tied.
A police search team later found an amphetamine laboratory in a cave along with 
some pills stamped with the Thai alphabet "Lor Chula" and number "99". It was 
the first discovery of its kind in the North.
Mr Bunpot said anti-narcotics officers in the North have confiscated about 
1.4-1.5 million pills a month in the northern provinces, especially in Chiang 
Rai, since the beginning of this year.
The suspects said they obtained the pills from the border in the Mae Sai and 
Chiang Saen districts of Chiang Rai. New ingredients such as caffeine herbicide, 
formaldehyde and chocolate are mixed with amphetamines to appeal to a wide range 
of consumers.

The Wa minority, seeking autonomy from the Rangoon Government, also operates 
amphetamine labs opposite Mae Ai district in Chiang Mai and along the border 
between Mae Hong Son and Chiang Rai, Mr Bunpot said. '
Narcotics officials have confiscated a large number of pills stamped with the 
"WY" logo of the Wa, he said.
