Report Says Government Losing Battle Against Amphetamines

The Office of the Narcotics Control Board (ONCB) 
announced yesterday that the government is losing the fight against amphetamine 
abuse, saying 12 to 18 million tablets of the drug have been smuggled into 
Thailand in the past six months.

An ONCB report submitted to Deputy Prime Minister Sukhavich Rangsitphol said 
that regular crackdowns on amphetamine production have forced manufacturers to 
relocate their operations to Burma, Laos and Cambodia. The majority of the 
amphetamines smuggled into Thailand come from Burma, the report said.
Chiang Rai's Mae Sai district was found to have the highest rate of amphetamine 
smuggling, with about one million tablets a month coming across the border.
The report said the production of amphetamines in Burma increased following drug 
warlord Khun Sa's surrender to the Burmese government. It said his surrender 
caused small ethnic groups, which were once under Khun Sa's control, to turn to 
the production of amphetamines for sale to Thailand because the trade has become 
more lucrative than heroin production.

The ethnic groups which produce amphetamines, including Wa, are located along 
the Chinese-Burmese border and the Burmese border opposite Chiang Mai, Chiang 
Rai, Tak and Kanchanaburi.
Although the ONCB believes that two million to three million amphetamine pills 
have entered Thailand each month over the last six months, authorities have only 
managed to seize a million, the report said.
It adds that manufacturers in Burma have begun to use Laos as a transit route to 
smuggle the drug into Thailand following increased checks along the Thai-Burmese 
border.

The ONCB also believes that amphetamine tablets are being produced along the Lao 
border opposite Nakhon Phanom and Loei provinces. The report also said some 
amphetamines are produced in Koh Kong in Cambodia.
More than half of the amphetamines consumed in Thailand make their way through 
Burma and Laos, according to the ONCB report.
It said that amphetamine producers have set up warehouses for distributing drugs 
in several spots across the Thai border such as Burma's Thachilek province 
opposite Mae Sai, Laos' Ban Huaysai village opposite Chiang Rai's Chiang Khong 
district and an area opposite Loei's Tha Li district.
The report said that because of the lucrative nature of the business and because 
more people have turned to amphetamines, more traffickers have joined the trade.
It said that frequent crackdowns deterred the smuggling of the drug for a short 
period, however, increased production by minority groups in Burma has meant that 
the drug is still widely available in Thailand.
The ONCB proposed that the government seek cooperation from neighbouring 
countries to crack down on manufacturers and smugglers of the drug. It also 
suggested that the government launch a public awareness campaign to warn people 
about the dangers of amphetamine abuse.
