Police Uncover Amphetamine Laboratory Near Ostroleka

An illegal amphetamine laboratory in a village near 
Ostroleka smashed, 7 kg of the ready-to-use drug and 7- 10 L of BMK 
(half-product raw material used to make it) found, the ring leader and chief 
distributor of the merchandise apprehended -- those are effects of activities 
conducted by drug-enforcement units of the Warsaw Capital and Ostroleka 
Voivodship Police Headquarters this past Saturday [4 October]. The black market 
value of the confiscated drugs is estimated at 2 million-2.5 million zlotys [Z]. 

Underinspector Witold Gieralt, spokesman for the Capital Police Headquarters, 
said that a complete technological line to make the drug and other necessary 
equipment had been detected in the barn of a homestead in Ostroleka Voivodship. 
The police hoped to catch the drug makers red-handed. When they entered the 
homestead where the laboratory operated, nobody was there. Yet, it was clear 
that the production cycle had been initiated but halted for unknown reasons. The 
owner that rented the barn explained the situation: On Friday night [3 October], 
electricity was repeatedly disrupted. Unable to work, the producer and organizer 
of this activity returned to Warsaw. He was caught while driving a car in which 
he had about 500 g of the drug. The police refused to disclose his identity. 
At that same time, the police were conducting another operation. The policemen 
were watching an apartment where, according to their knowledge, the chief dealer 
peddling the amphetamine made in Ostroleka stayed. After they detained the 
producer, the police decided to enter the dealer's apartment. In one of the 
rooms, they found large packed portions of amphetamine (a total of 7 kg), 
equipment used to enrich it, and laboratory scales. The dealer, a man of 60, was 
also detained. 

After laboratory tests, the police said that the found amphetamine had a high, 
90 percent, grade of purity. Chemical tests showed, however, that before being 
sold on the market the merchandise was mixed with powdered sugar and contained 
only about 50 percent of amphetamine, which almost doubled revenues from its 
sales. 
Seven kg of this drug makes more than 70,000 hits sold on the street for about 
Z8 each. Another 6-8 kg of amphetamine could be made of the confiscated 7-10 L 
of BMK. 

According to police experts, the unearthed drug production line is similar to 
the one that the Warsaw police smashed on 17 September at Mokotow [Warsaw 
district]. At that time, about 10 L of BMK was detected in an underground 
laboratory. The police believe that neither laboratory was part of a major 
organized criminal group. 
