Slovak Commentary Views Consequences of US-Chinese Spy Plane Incident

   This is the Year of the Snake according to the Chinese calendar.   However, 
Chinese politicians resemble a grass snake rather than a cobra.   As one week 
has lapsed since the US spy aircraft made an emergency landing on the Chinese 
island of Hainan and Sunday [8 April] was the seventh day of the US crew being 
held in captivity, it is high time to examine possible consequences of this 
incident.   Regardless of when the Chinese will release the crew, it can be 
stated already today that the incident will have long-lasting consequences for 
Chinese-US relations.   According to a survey by the daily Washington Post on 
the seventh day of the crisis, 58 percent of Americans think that China is an 
enemy, rather than a friend, while the opinion of 63 percent of respondents was 
just the opposite one year ago.   This shift in public opinion is a real 
treasure for the Republican congressional representatives and senators, who have 
been assiduously courted by the arms lobby. Even moderate circles on Capitol 
Hill did not forget to stress that it what happens before the crew are released 
is irrelevant, whether they take a moderate tone, express regret, form a joint 
commission -- everything is okay to get our fellows home.   But then...

    It is obvious that the Chinese-US match will have a second half.   In the 
second half, which will start the minute the US crew is released, those senators 
and congressmen calling for the largest possible supplies of weapons to Taiwan 
and increased spending on new and more efficient weapons for the US Army, will 
gain the upper hand and the antimissile defense system will undoubtedly become 
more popular.   Even now, when it is not possible to start even a moderate 
anti-Chinese campaign in the media because the crew is still held captive, the 
public is on their side.

    It is clear that the opportunity to convince the public that China is no 
longer a potential but rather a real rival of the United States came as a 
godsend to Bush's arms hawks three months after the new president had assumed 
office.   On the other hand, the US public's willingness to support armament 
against China is a very negative turnaround for China itself.   Following the 
Clinton era, had it not been for this incident, Bush's Administration would need 
at least one election period to convince the public that it is necessary for the 
United States to defend itself against China.   Reports on the US crew being 
held in the Chinese captivity have produced the same result within seven days.   
The Chinese tiger has, thus, lost approximately four years, during which it 
could have built up its strength unnoticed and grown into such dimensions that 
would be dangerous for the American eagle.    

