Navy Wants To Keep Spy Plane Crew's Hawaii Stop-Over Low-Key

    HICKAM AIR FORCE BASE, Hawaii, April 12 (AFP) - The crew of a US 
surveillance plane held for 12 days in China will arrive in Hawaii Thursday to 
face 12 separate groups of debriefers, a small brass band and a Navy determined 
to keep the Hawaii visit low-key.   

    The 24 servicemen and women are due to arrive at approximately 6:30 am (1630 
GMT) aboard a C-17 transport plane from the US territory of Guam.   

    "We're not encouraging a big celebration," a Navy spokesman said.   

    The Navy is waiting for the crew's return Saturday to their home base of 
Whidbey Island, Washington to stage a gala yellow-ribbon-festooned celebration.  
 

    During their stop-off in Hawaii, the crew will be asked about a range of 
subjects including psychological issues, intelligence, and details of what 
happened when their plane and a Chinese jet fighter jet collided over the South 
China Sea on April 1, according to a Navy spokesman who asked not to be named.   


    The mid-air crash led to the loss of the Chinese plane and its pilot, while 
the damaged US plane made an emergency landing on China's Hainan Island.   

    The Navy's EP-3 turbo-prop plane equipped with state-of-the-art electronics 
surveillance equipment remains in China.   

    Beijing released the US crew on April 12 after the United States expressed 
sorrow for the death of the Chinese pilot and acknowledged that the Navy plane 
had landed in Chinese territory without permission.   

    The Navy has been discouraging friends and family from meeting the crew in 
Hawaii and has also frowned upon displays of yellow ribbons on buildings here.   


    The use of yellow ribbons -- inspired by an old pop song with the lyrics 
"Tie a yellow ribbon 'round the old oak tree if you still want me" -- dates to 
the Iran hostage crisis in November 1979, when radical Iranian students took 
captive scores of US citizens in Tehran.   

    Throughout the US-China standoff, the first major foreign policy trial for 
the young administration of President George W.   Bush, US officials avoided 
using the word "hostage" to describe the crew held in China, evidently in a bid 
to keep tempers cool amid elaborate diplomatic efforts to win their release.   
