Former Iranian President: West can't push Iran around
By The Associated Press

TEHRAN, Iran - The West cannot push Iran around as it did Libya and Iraq, a former Iranian president said in a sermon during prayers Friday at Tehran University.

Hashemi Rafsanjani also criticized the United Nations nuclear watchdog agency for urging Iran to suspend its conversion of uranium into gas.

"Our people are not going to allow their nuclear rights to be seized, Rafsanjani said.

	Advertisement

The International Atomic Energy Agency expressed "serious concern" Thursday over Iran's decision to resume uranium conversion, a step before the enrichment of uranium - which can be used to generate electricity to make nuclear weapon.

In a resolution, the agency urged Iran to suspend conversion to reassure the United States and others that it was not concealing a weapons program. But the UN body stopped short of referring Iran to the UN Security Council, indicating it wanted to leave time for further negotiations to defuse the standoff.

Rafsanjani, who lost the June presidential elections but remains head of the influential Expediency Council, said he was surprised that no country opposed the European-sponsored resolution adopted by the 35-nation IAEA board of governors after a three-day emergency meeting.

"It was a cruel decision. We did not expect them to approve it unanimously," Rafsanjani said in the sermon to a crowd of thousands and broadcast on state television.

"These people think they have defeated Iran, but they should know that Iran is not a place where they can do what they did with Libya and Iraq," Rafsanjani said of Western efforts to block Tehran's nuclear ambitions.

The audience responded with chants of "God is great."

U.S.-led forces toppled Saddam Hussein in Iraq during the 2003 invasion, and American and other Western governments forced Libya to dismantle its weapons of mass destruction program and hand over suspects in the 1988 Lockerbie airline bombing.

Iran insists it has the right as a signer to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty to carry out any nuclear activities short of producing nuclear weapons, including uranium enrichment for reactor fuel. It denies U.S. accusations that it secretly aims to produce nuclear weapons.

On Wednesday, Iran removed seals from the Uranium Conversion Facility at Isfahan under the supervision of IAEA inspectors and resumed work at the site, which converts uranium ore into UF-6 gas, the feedstock for enrichment.

Iran has dismissed Thursday's resolution as a political move.

"It comes from American pressure," Foreign Ministry spokesman Hamid Reza Asefi said. "It lacks any legal or logical basis and is unacceptable."

Iran says it will not resume enrichment for now, and would prefer to do so after a negotiated agreement with Europeans in talks that began two years ago.

Britain, Germany and France have been trying to persuade Iran to forgo enrichment in order to stop the country from acquiring the means of producing nuclear weapons.