 LONDON (Reuters) - European negotiators have few options left to persuade Iran to halt sensitive atomic work and may have to come to terms with Tehran pursuing its nuclear program, as two years of talks inch toward breakdown.

European Union diplomats say privately Iran's resumption of sensitive nuclear work this week all but ends its talks with the trio of Britain, France and Germany, which have been trying to stop Iran developing a nuclear bomb.

"It is very difficult to see this process being relaunched without Iran having a major change of heart and from where I'm standing that looks unlikely," said one EU diplomat.

Tehran's rejection of the latest EU proposals prompted the bloc to hand the case to the United Nations' nuclear watchdog, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), which on Thursday demanded Iran resume its freeze on nuclear work.

With a possible referral to the U.N. Security Council looming, a move that could lead to sanctions, some analysts say a changed climate in Iran since June's presidential election has made it more difficult to assess Tehran's intentions.

Iran, which has employed brinkmanship tactics throughout the EU talks, has adopted a tougher stance since the election of conservative President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who Europe fears may usher in an era of harsher anti-Western sentiment.

However, diplomats are unsure if Iran's resumption of nuclear fuel work is a negotiating ploy or a new approach.

Few analysts doubt Iranian determination to develop a nuclear program, whether purely civilian or otherwise.

"The reality is Iran will have a nuclear program," said Wyn Bowen of Kings College, London. "At least the EU diplomacy has stalled it by two years."

Tehran denies Western accusations that its atomic program is a front for covert bomb-making and says it needs nuclear power to cope with booming electricity demand.

The EU tried to woo Iran into halting nuclear work with economic incentives and offers of access to power while threatening a referral to the U.N. Security Council.