 Iran anger at warning on N-plant
Correspondents in Vienna and New York
August 13, 2005

IRAN bristled yesterday at a warning from the UN nuclear watchdog to suspend activities that could lead to an atomic weapon, but the agency's restrained response made it clear the West wanted to give diplomacy more time to ease the standoff.

The International Atomic Energy Agency's 35-nation board of governors expressed "serious concern" over Tehran's decision to resume uranium conversion, stopping well short of reporting the regime to the UN Security Council.

In a resolution adopted after three days of intense negotiations, the board urged Iran to put its latest nuclear activities on hold to reassure the US and others that it was not concealing a weapons program.

But the implicit message to the Iranians was clear: give negotiations a chance to defuse the crisis.

IAEA chief Mohamed ElBaradei said he was "optimistic that we will continue on the path of dialogue".

	

	

	

Britain, which along with France and Germany has led a European effort to entice Tehran with economic and political incentives instead of threats, said it still hoped "there is a non-confrontational way forward if Iran wants to take it".

Iran, which insists its nuclear program is peaceful and geared only towards generating electricity, responded with indignation.

Sirus Nasseri, the country's chief delegate to the Vienna-based IAEA, defiantly declared that his country would be a "nuclear fuel producer and supplier within a decade" and dismissed the resolution as an attempt "to apply pressure".

"This resolution is political," said Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Hamid Reza Asefi, according to Iran's state-run news agency. "It comes from American pressure ... It lacks any legal or logical basis and is unacceptable."

Diplomats speaking on condition of anonymity -- because they were not authorised to discuss the proceedings publicly -- said Tehran faced a September 3 deadline to stop its activities or face another possible referral to the Security Council, which has the power to impose crippling sanctions.

In its resolution, the IAEA board gave Dr ElBaradei that deadline to give it a comprehensive report on Iran's compliance or lack thereof.

Yesterday's resolution did not mention the Security Council, given concerns such a move could backfire by hardening Iran's position. Tehran had said it would rather endure sanctions than back down on a program it says is a matter of national pride.

Security Council diplomats in New York say the IAEA may also be wary of referring Iran to the council because there is a risk the body would not agree to sanctions.

China, for example, has said it opposes bringing the issue before the council, and could use its veto power to block a resolution punishing Iran.

US President George W. Bush, meeting members of his foreign policy team at his Texas ranch, welcomed the nuclear agency's warning to Tehran.

He also indicated that Iran's new leader, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, would probably be granted a US visa to attend a UN meeting in New York despite earlier assertions he played a leading role in the 1979 storming of the US embassy in Tehran.

"We have an agreement with the United Nations to allow people to come to meet and I suspect he will be there to meet at the United Nations," Mr Bush said yesterday.

However, he said the US was still looking into Mr Ahmadinejad's alleged part in the hostage crisis that consumed former US president Jimmy Carter - and the nation - for 444 days. 