Rafsanjani: IAEA statement on Iran 'cruel'
TEHRAN, Iran (AP) — The West cannot push Iran around as it has Libya and Iraq, a former Iranian president said Friday.

Delivering the Friday prayers sermon at Tehran University, Hashemi Rafsanjani criticized the U.N. nuclear watchdog for urging Iran to suspend its conversion of uranium into gas.

The International Atomic Energy Agency expressed "serious concern" Thursday over Iran's decision to resume uranium conversion, a step before the enrichment of uranium — which produces material that can be used both for generating electricity or making atomic bombs.

In a resolution, the agency urged Iran to suspend conversion to reassure the United States and others it is not concealing a weapons program. But the watchdog stopped well short of referring Iran to the U.N. Security Council, indicating it wanted to leave space for further negotiations.

France's foreign minister, Philippe Douste-Blazy, urged Iran on Friday to heed the world's call to halt uranium conversion and resume talks.

"I am sure that negotiations can resume on the condition that the Iranians decide to suspend these activities," he said in a statement. "Our hand remains outstretched."

France has joined with Britain and Germany in leading a European effort to entice Iran into given up uranium enrichment in return for economic and political incentives.

Rafsanjani, who lost the June presidential election but remains head of the influential Expediency Council, said he was surprised no country opposed the European-sponsored resolution that the IAEA's 35-nation board of governors adopted after three days of negotiations.

"It was a cruel decision. We did not expect them to approve it unanimously," he said in the sermon, which was delivered before a crowd of thousands and broadcast on state television.

Diplomats speaking on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the IAEA's proceedings publicly said Iran faced a Sept. 3 deadline to stop uranium conversion or face possible referral to the Security Council for consideration of sanctions.

Referring to the West, Rafsanjani said: "These people think they have defeated Iran, but they should know that Iran is not a place where they can do what they did with Libya and Iraq."

He alluded to the invasion of Iraq, which toppled Saddam Hussein's dictatorship, and the international sanctions and restrictions that forced Libya to hand over for trial suspects in the 1988 Lockerbie bombing and to dismantle its program to make weapons of mass destruction.

"Our people are not going to allow their nuclear rights to be seized," Rafsanjani said.

Iran insists it has the right as a signatory to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty to carry out any nuclear activities short of producing nuclear weapons, including uranium enrichment to fuel reactors. It denies U.S. accusations that it secretly aims to produce atomic weapons.

On Wednesday, Iran removed seals from its uranium conversion facility at Isfahan under the supervision of IAEA inspectors and resumed work at the site, which converts uranium ore into UF-6 gas, the feedstock for enrichment.

But officials said Iran would not resume enrichment for now, saying it preferred to do so after reaching an agreement with the Europeans in talks that have been taking place since 2003.

Iran dismissed Thursday's resolution by the IAEA as a political move.

"It comes from American pressure," Foreign Ministry spokesman Hamid Reza Asefi said. "It lacks any legal or logical basis and is unacceptable." 