Predictive analytics software applications use variables that can be measured and analyzed to predict likely behavior by individuals, machinery or other entities. For example, an insurance company is likely to take into account potential driving safety variables such as age, gender, location, type of vehicle and driving record when pricing and issuing auto insurance policies. Multiple variables are  combined into a predictive model capable of assessing future probabilities with an acceptable level of reliability. The software relies heavily on advanced algorithms and methodologies such as logistic regressions, time series analysis and decision trees. 

Predictive analytics has grown in prominence alongside the emergence of big data systems. As enterprises have amassed larger and broader pools of data in Hadoop clusters and other big data platforms, it has created increased opportunities for them to mine that data for predictive insights. Heightened development and commercialization of machine learning tools by IT vendors has also helped expand predictive analytics capabilities.

Marketing, financial services and insurance companies have been notable adopters of predictive analytics, as have large search engine and online services providers. Predictive analytics is also commonly used in industries such as healthcare, retail and manufacturing. Business applications for predictive analytics include targeting online advertisements, flagging potentially fraudulent financial transactions, identifying patients at risk of developing particular medical conditions and detecting impending parts failures in industrial equipment before they occur.

The predictive analytics process
Predictive analytics requires a high level of expertise with statistical methods and the ability to build predictive data models. As a result, it's typically the domain of data scientists, statisticians and other skilled data analysts. They're supported by data engineers, who help to gather relevant data and prepare it for analysis, and by software developers and business analysts, who help with data visualization, dashboards and reports.

Data scientists use predictive models to look for correlations between different data elements in website clickstream data, patient health records and other types of data sets. Once the data to be analyzed is collected, a statistical model is formulated, trained and modified as needed to produce accurate results; the model is then run against the selected data to generate predictions. Full data sets are analyzed in some applications, but in others, analytics teams use data sampling to streamline the process. The predictive model is validated or revised as additional data becomes available.