Experts' Views on Developing, Utilizing, and Protecting Oceans

Editor's note: On May 15 of this year, the Standing 
Committee of the National People's Congress of China approved the "Maritime Law 
Convention of the United Nations." This resulted in maritime problems once again 
becoming a focal point of world attention. Experts have predicted that the 21st 
century will be the century of the oceans which well shows the important 
significance oceans have on the survival and development of future man. At this 
time, everyone is naturally giving even greater concern to the development of 
China's ocean enterprises. It is for this reason that we have specially invited 
several related leaders and well-known experts to write essays and discuss the 
development situation and future development directions of China's ocean 
enterprises from different perspectives. It is hoped that they will result in 
more people understanding and being concerned about China's ocean enterprises, 
as well as working hard to build China into a major, powerful maritime nation in 
the world at an early date. 
-- Zhang Dengyi (Chief of National Bureau of Oceanography) 

Welcoming the New Century of the Oceans 
The 21st century will be a new century for the total understanding, development, 
utilization and protection of the oceans by mankind. This new century will have 
indications in three areas: first, maritime rights will be redistributed into a 
new phase. The sea area within 200 nautical miles will gradually be 
nationalized, and the open seas and international ocean areas will develop in 
the direction of combined international management. The "Maritime Law Convention 
of the United Nations" which went into effect on 16 November 1994 will result in 
approximately 130 million square kilometers of coastal waters (occupying 
approximately 35.8 percent of the total area of oceans) being demarcated by 
coastal nations into state administered ocean areas cut off from their open seas 
character and developing in the direction of nationalization; all of the coastal 
nations are successively formulating laws, and the ocean boundaries between 
nations will also be successively drawn; the combined administrative system by 
the international community of international ocean bottom mineral resources will 
also gradually be established. Second, high and new technology has promoted the 
development of ocean industries, and the effects of the ocean economy are 
becoming increasingly important. Owing to the rapid development of science and 
technology (S & T), the production and living space of mankind are gradually 
pushing out into the oceans. In the past, the utilization of ocean space was 
mainly involved with the building of ports and ocean shipping, but it has now 
already developed in many areas--the tremendous potential of using ocean mineral 
resources, biological resources, oil and gas resources, and water resources. In 
1990, the total value output of the ocean industry throughout the world was 
US$670 billion, and by the year 2000 it will possibly exceed US$1.5 trillion. 
Third, the influences of the oceans on the global environment is gaining 
increasing serious attention, and the international cooperation for research 
activities on the major oceans throughout the world have become increasingly 
vigorous. The oceans are the regulators of the global environment. In order to 
grasp the changing patterns of the global environment and protect the ecological 
environment, international organizations and many nations are cooperating in 
carrying out ocean environment tests, ocean thermal flux tests, maritime 
tropical and global atmospheric tests, deep sea exploration, deep-sea drilling, 
etc., and pollution surveys of the world's oceans are being planned; the global 
ocean observation network is now being established, and there are an ever 
increasing number of seasats. These research activities will make tremendous 
contributions to the development of earth science, and provide scientific basis 
for resolving global environment problems. 

Premier Li Peng proposed in his report presented on 5 March 1996 at the 4th 
Meeting of the 8th National People's Congress that it is necessary to "actively 
develop marine resources," and this possesses tremendous strategic significance. 
China has the lowest per capita consumption level of terrestrial natural 
resources in the world, and in order to ensure the sustained, rapid and healthy 
development of the national economy, it is necessary to provide tremendous 
riches. China possesses abundant marine resources including harbors, access to 
the sea, biological resources, mineral resources, and oil and gas resources, 
etc. By the next century, the oceans will become an important way out for 
resolving China's resources, population and environmental problems. 
In meeting the challenges of the oceans in the new century, China faces many 
urgent problems. Internationally, China's maritime rights have been violated, 
many islands have been seized, there are serious disputes over marine oil and 
gas resources, and there are prominent contradictions in the demarcation of sea 
areas. There is a lack of coordination and cooperation between domestic 
departments and trades related to the oceans which has influenced the overall 
development results of ocean areas; the demarcation lines of the property rights 
of marine resources are unclear, and there is serious destruction and waste; the 
development of technology for the management of marine pollution is slow, marine 
pollution is becoming increasingly serious year by year, and the scale is 
enlarging; due to excessive fishing, there has been destruction to coastal and 
near sea fishery resources as well as the ecological environment, there has been 
an acute decrease in species, and it is difficult to sustain utilization. 
As a result, we must accomplish the following major strategic tasks concerning 
the oceans as we go into the new century. First, it is necessary to adopt 
effective measures to protect the maritime rights and interests of the nation. 
This includes perfecting the maritime legal system in order to protect the 
rights and interests of China's territorial and adjacent waters, continental 
shelf, and exclusive economic zones, as well as provide legal basis for the 
exploration and development of submarine area and open sea resources; strengthen 
the development of marine resources, especially the development of the oil and 
gas resources and fishery resources of disputed areas; strengthen the building 
of law enforcement for the oceans, guarantee effective enforcement and 
protection of laws, and protect maritime rights and interests. Second, it is 
necessary to vigorously develop the ocean economy and guarantee the fairly rapid 
growth of ocean economy so that China becomes a nation with a strong ocean 
economy. In order to build a certain number of ocean economic bases in key 
coastal provinces, vigorously develop the ocean fishing industry, ocean oil and 
gas industry, ocean transportation, the utilization of sea water, ocean tourism 
industry, and gradually form the new industries of marine chemical engineering, 
ocean medicinal drugs, and marine mining, etc. so that they become important 
industries within the national economy. Third, it is necessary to actively 
develop marine S & T, especially high technology, implement Plan 863 for the 
development of key projects concerning the oceans with high technology, execute 
the strategy of "fostering the oceans with S & T," and continuously raise the S 
& T levels for the development and protection of the oceans. Fourth, it is 
necessary to implement the principle of sustainable development, strengthen the 
management of the oceans, gradually build a comprehensive system for the 
management of the oceans, coordinate and resolve various contradictions within 
the development activities of the oceans, improve the ecological environment of 
the oceans, and guarantee the sustained utilization of the marine environment. 
The arrival of the new century will bring us opportunities as well as challenges 
for the oceans. How we seize these opportunities and meet these challenges will 
not only determine the development of China's ocean undertakings, but it will 
also have major effects on the economic and social development of China in the 
future as well as raising its overall national strength. 
-- Wang Zhixiong (Director of the Marine High Technology Field Office of the 
State Science and Technology Commission) 
Relying Upon S & T to Further Develop, Utilize and Protect the Oceans 
The oceans are an important and integral part of the global life support system, 
they are precious treasures which human society rely upon for survival and 
development, and they are also one of the main ways out for resolving the three 
major problems of population, resources and environment now facing the world. 
The development, utilization and protection of the oceans has also become a 
powerful world trend. The 21st century will be the century of ocean development. 

China has over 3 million square kilometers of ocean area. This is richly endowed 
blue national territory awaiting development, and it is a new space for the 
survival and development of the Chinese nation. Following the continuous 
deepening of reforms and liberalization as well as the rapid development of 
economic construction, ocean development has become a major force for the 
soaring of China's economy. Therefore, the rapid formation of comprehensive 
ocean development capabilities which adapt to China's status as a great power, 
and implementing and strengthening the development, utilization and protection 
of marine resources is already imminent and imperative. However, reliance upon S 
& T advancements, raising the overall technical level of developing, utilizing 
and protecting the oceans, as well as being oriented towards modernization, the 
world and the future is the basic direction for the development of China's 
marine S & T work. 

The oceans are a complete ecological system, marine resources and environment 
possess many functional, regenerative and fragile characteristics, and the 
development, utilization and protection of the oceans is a complex systems 
engineering. Therefore, the development of marine S & T requires having correct 
strategic plans. The development strategy direction of China's marine S & T in 
the 1990's as brought forth in the No. 9 "Marine Technology Policy" of China's S 
& T Blue Book drawn up by the State Science and Technology Commission is that 
"The State shall guide the overall strength for the formation of a marine S & T 
contingency, focus development on applying technology for the oceans, 
selectively develop marine high technology, and appropriately developing major 
basic research on oceans so that China's marine S & T will reach the 1980's 
level of advanced nations by the end of this century in order to satisfy the 
requirements for protecting maritime rights and interests, developing marine 
resources, and protecting the ecological environment of the oceans." 
The stratified and integral promotion of marine S & T research in China is the 
policy for the development of Chinese marine S & T. It accords with the 
objective needs and subjective conditions which we face. In terms of satisfying 
the objective needs of China's marine development, it is advantageous to 
handling well leading research in dominating subjects and technical fields, and 
providing technical reserves for China's marine industry to catch up with 
advanced international levels; it is beneficial to accelerating the 
commercialization and industrialization of S & T achievements; it is 
advantageous to developing advanced applicable technology, and shrinking the gap 
between China and the developed nations as well as that between different 
regions within China; it is advantageous to culturing the new growing points of 
future industries, and pushing forward the sustained and rapid development of 
the marine industry. Within the context of subjective conditions, we have a 
specialized S & T contingency with complete range of subjects. At present, China 
has a total of 105 marine scientific research organizations, 12,000 specialized 
scientists and technicians, and over 2,000 research subjects. Under the guidance 
of the policy of "stabilize one thing and lift controls on something else," this 
S & T contingency possesses the ability to engage in stratified S & T research 
on the development of the oceans, and provide S & T services for the large-scale 
development of the oceans. 

"The stratified and integral promotion of marine S & T research in China" mainly 
includes the contents of the following 11 areas: 
1. Giving serious attention to basic and applied research; 
2. Utilizing new technology to develop marine exploration and integrated 
investigations; 
3. Improving the marine survey and public guarantee service system; 
4. Working hard to develop the level of equipment, and promoting the formation 
and development of marine industries; 
5. Developing marine engineering technology, and raising the level of seacoast 
developed equipment; 
6. Developing marine environmental protection technology; 
7. Selectively developing marine high technology so as to provide technical 
support for realizing industrialization; 
8. Actively participating in international cooperation on marine science 
research; 
9. Strengthening marine legislation and management research; 
10. Strengthening the training of marine scientists and technicians; 
11. Strengthening the popularization of science, and raising the consciousness 
of the entire population concerning the oceans. 
During the period of the "Ninth 5-Year Plan," the State Science and Technology 
Commission will concretely and comprehensively promote marine S & T work in 
China in four areas, that is, implement the "Plan for Tackling Key Problems in 
Science and Technology," "High Technology Plan," "Special Project Scientific 
Research Plan," and "Plan for the Promotion of the Oceans Through Science and 
Technology." 

We must conform to the international trend of the large-scale development of the 
oceans as well as the upsurge in the development of the oceans which has 
occurred in China's coastal areas, put our sights on the oceans, and strengthen 
work in marine S & T so as to promote the development of marine S & T in China 
and increase the overall national strength of China to put forth even greater 
efforts. The new age of marine development has already arrived, and by relying 
upon S & T advances, China can build itself into a major maritime nation. 
-- Zhao Lihai (Vice-President of the China Maritime Law Society, and Professor 
of International Law at Beijing University) 

"The United Nations Maritime Law Treaty" and China's Maritime Rights and 
Interests 
On 15 May 1996, the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress 
approved "The United Nations Maritime Law Treaty." This act will have 
far-reaching influence on the development of China's marine industry. 
1. The Importance of "The United Nations Maritime Law Treaty" 
"The United Nations Maritime Law Treaty" came into being in 1982 after 24 years 
of arduous negotiations. This treaty has very important significance. Firstly, 
from the point of view of international relations, it has been called "a 
multilateral treaty more extensive than any previous international treaty," and 
its influence is only secondary to the "Charter of the United States." Second, 
from the point of view of the development of international law, it extensively 
draws from the principles and rules of traditional maritime law. At the same 
time, it also brings forth many new ideas on maritime law, having already become 
an important source for modern maritime law, and constraining all aspects of the 
utilization of maritime space. Third, this treaty also embodies the common 
aspirations of each nation which signed the treaty, especially the developing 
nations, that is, the establishment of a new order for a complete and rational 
set of maritime laws within the territorial waters of two-thirds or more of the 
area of the globe. 
2. The Advantages and Disadvantages of China Approving "The United Nations 
Maritime Law Treaty" 

Generally speaking, "The Treaty" emerged during the high peak period of 
international influence by developing nations. It reflects the broad needs and 
positions of the developing nations, and weakened the monopoly and control of 
the oceans by a few major maritime nations. However, because "The Treaty" was 
produced amidst compromise, it was necessary at the same time to take into 
consideration the interests of each of the signing parties, and thus there are 
still drawbacks in many areas. 
In terms of China, each of the following regulations in "The Treaty" are 
advantageous: 
1. "The Treaty" determined the extent of territorial sea "not exceeding 12 
nautical miles" and broke down the limits of major maritime nations on the 
extent of territorial sea; 
2. "The Treaty" guarantees exercising sovereignty and jurisdiction by coastal 
nations over their straits which are used for international navigation. This is 
to a very large extent advantageous to China developing its own sea power. 
3. "The Treaty" confirms the "200 nautical mile exclusive economic zone" which 
China has consistently maintained, and protects the sovereignty of coastal 
nations for the marine resources within the economic zone. Based on this 
stipulation of "The Treaty," the oceans waters which are administered by China 
can be expanded from the present 370,000 square kilometers to approximately 3 
million square kilometers. This is a precious treasure. 
4. "The Treaty" proclaims: the international sea-bed area and its resources are 
"the shared inherited assets of all humanity." This principle is an important 
innovation in maritime law. The International Sea-Bed Administration Preparatory 
Committee already approved China as a "pioneer investor" in August 1991 which 
authorized China to explore for seabed resources in certain seabed areas 
southeast of Hawaii. 
5. "The Treaty" guarantees the rights and interests of coastal nations in the 
areas of marine environmental protection and marine science research in 
exclusive economic zones and continental shelf. It is at present the only 
international environmental law related to various sources of pollution, and 
this accords with the interests and needs of developing nations. 
"The Treaty" will possibly produce unfavorable effects for China in the 
following several areas. However, these difficulties are not insurmountable. 
The first is related to the problem of innocent passage of foreign military 
vessels through territorial waters. It is stipulated in Article 17 of "The 
Treaty": "Under the limitations of this treaty, the ships of all nations, 
regardless of whether they are coastal or inland nations, shall enjoy the right 
of innocent passage through the territorial waters (of other nations)." Here 
"ships" also include military vessels. This stipulation conflicts with China's 
"Laws Concerning Territorial Waters and Adjoining Areas." Based on the 
stipulations in Article 310 of "The Treaty": Does not exclude the declarations 
or explanations of one nations when signing, approving or joining "The Treaty." 
China can issue declarations when approving "The Treaty" to explain its own 
position on this question. The second is related to the problem of delineating 
exclusive economic zones. In the East China Sea, owing to the fact that the 
east-west width of the sea area is not 400 nautical miles, if each of two 
nations declares a 200 nautical mile exclusive economic zone, there will then be 
overlapping between the two nations. Further, the stipulations in "The Treaty" 
regarding demarcation of economic zones are also in contradiction with the 
position China has consistently maintained on the continental shelf of the East 
China Sea naturally extending out to the Okinawa trough. China should maintain 
its position on this question. The third is related to the demarcation of the 
continental shelf. The stipulations in Article 76 of "The Treaty" which extend 
the continental shelf to the "outer rim of the continental margin" formed from 
the "continental shelf, continental slope and continental rise" are only 
applicable to nations facing oceans, and basically not applicable to China which 
has coasts facing other nations. Although this stipulation will possibly bring 
certain difficulties to China regarding the demarcation of the continental shelf 
of the East China Sea, yet Item 10, Article 76 of "The Treaty" clearly 
stipulates: "The stipulations of this article shall not jeopardize the defining 
of the boundary of the continental shelf between adjoining nations or those with 
coasts facing each other." China can cite this article at appropriate times. 
3. Domestic Legislation Should Adapt to "The United Nations Maritime Law Treaty" 

"The United Nations Maritime Law Treaty" formally went into effect on 16 
November 1994. Although China issued the "Laws of the People's Republic of China 
Concerning Territorial Waters and Adjoining Areas" on 15 February 1992, yet, to 
date, China's base line of territorial waters has still not been completely 
delimited, and this signifies that China's maritime rights and interests will 
still be violated at any time. All of China's bordering nations have competed to 
be the first to issue exclusive economic zone laws and continental shelf laws. 
We should therefore formulate the "Laws of the People's Republic Concerning 
Exclusive Economic Zones and Continental Shelf" as well as "Fishing Protection 
and Management Laws" as soon as possible so as to protect China's maritime 
rights and interests; as a pioneer investor in international seabed areas, China 
should deeply study related problems in each area so as to lay a foundation for 
correctly including seabed development work in the international system in a 
timely manner. Legislative work is also very important in this field. Further, 
China should also perfect existing laws, regulations or as quickly as possible 
establish laws in the areas of offshore petroleum development, environmental 
protection, the management of scientific research, and maritime arbitration. 
4. The Significance of China's Approval of The Treaty 
It is well known that China has participated in the entirety of the Third United 
Nations Conference on Maritime Law, made a major contribution to the drawing up 
of "The United Nations Maritime Law Treaty," and signed "The Treaty" on 10 
December 1982. By February 1996, there were already 85 nations including the 
major nations of Great Britain, Japan, Germany, Italy, Australia, etc. which had 
approved "The Treaty." Therefore, each nation paid great attention to China's 
approval process. China's prompt approval of "The Treaty" not only gained 
political initiative, but as a pioneer investor, China also obtained guarantees 
for rights and interests of international seabeds. At the same time, China will 
have the right to participate in the election of the International Maritime 
Court, and obtain success in working hard to enter the International Seabed 
Administration Council. Therefore, approval of "The United Nations Maritime Law 
Treaty" is very important and has far-reaching significance for raising China's 
status as a major maritime nation, protecting maritime rights and interests, and 
developing marine undertakings. 
-- Yang Jinsen (Assistant Director and Research Fellow of the Institute of Ocean 
Development Strategy, National Bureau of Oceanography) 
Take Building a Nation With a Strong Maritime Economy as the National Strategy 
for Stepping Into the Next Century 
At the 45th Session of the United Nations General Assembly in 1990, it was 
resolved to urge each nation of the world to list the oceans which were being 
developed and utilized into their development strategies. The "Agenda for the 
21st Century" passed by the Environment and Development Conference of the United 
Nations in 1992 pointed out that the oceans are a basic component part of the 
global life support system, and they are important treasures for guaranteeing 
the sustained development of mankind. China which has the largest population and 
the smallest per capita consumption of natural resources in the world should 
give even greater serious attention to the development of the oceans and take it 
as a strategy for the development of the national economy when stepping into the 
next century. 
The per capita consumption of natural land resources in China is lower than the 
average world level. China has a population of 1.2 billion people, and the per 
capita land occupation is only approximately 1/40 of the average world level; 
the per capita consumption of water resources are only 1/4 of the average world 
level; and the per capita consumption of mineral resources is only 1/2 of the 
average world level. Based on analysis of the national economy guarantee level 
for 45 main minerals (occupying over 90 percent of mineral consumption) in 
China, during the next 10 years, needs will be unable to be satisfied for 1/4 of 
them, and the needs for 1/2 will be unable to be met going into the 21st 
century. Following the sustained and rapid development of the national economy, 
the development situation of China's existing land resources will become even 
more grim. 
The oceans have abundant resources and the possibility of providing tremendous 
wealth. The length of China's shoreline, the area of its continental shelf, and 
the 200 nautical miles of sea area, etc. can be placed among the 10 
front-runners in the world, and occupy a superior global position. Dock and 
harbor resources and accesses to the sea are national strategic materials. The 
utilization of good docks and harbors to build ports, the protection, 
development and opening of even more accesses to the sea, and the use of global 
navigation routes to develop foreign economic relations possess important 
strategic significance; there are already 20278 biological varieties and 
approximately 2 billion mu of shallow sea area of 20 meters or more isobath. The 
use of shallow sea for fish farming and the building of aquafarms can form food 
resource bases with strategic significance; China's sea salt yield occupies over 
70 percent of the entire nation's crude salt, the offshore oil and gas fields 
can become strategic replacement areas for land oil and gas fields, and the 
direct use of sea water can possibly replace over 10 percent of industrial water 
in coastal areas. All of these are valuable strategic resources. Further, China 
has S & T capabilities for continuously raising the level of ocean development 
as well as a solid marine industries basis. At present, there are over 100 
marine scientific research organizations and approximately 30,000 marine 
scientists and technicians in China; the sea salt industry occupies first place 
in the world for that industry, sea transportation is among the top 10 in the 
world, the offshore oil industry has an initial scale, and the ocean tourism, 
sea water usage, marine energy usage, and marine chemical engineering, etc. also 
have certain basis. Therefore, China can completely become a major marine 
economy nation in the world by gradually raising the level of productive forces 
and expanding the industrial scale. 
China's marine development has now already entered a new stage of development. 
In 1989, the output value of China's main marine industries was 24.5 billion 
yuan, and in 1995 it had already reached 18 billion yuan. The coastal areas have 
had an upsurge in the overall development of the oceans. Related areas have 
successively brought forth the strategic ideas of building "offshore Liaoning," 
"offshore Shandong," "offshore Eastern Jiangsu (Jiangsu)," and the slogans of 
"Make prosperous Hainan Island using the sea, and build the big province in the 
sea (Hainan)," and "stereoscopically develop the seas, and manage the economies 
of the land and oceans together." Other coastal provinces and cities have also 
formulated strategies and plans to develop marine undertakings. In order to make 
China into a nation with a strong maritime economy in the world and allow the 
oceans to make even greater contributions to the sustained and flourishing 
development of the Chinese people, we must make untiring and strong efforts. 
Firstly, we should build a strong overall maritime force including naval 
vessels, petroleum development platforms and ships, fishing fleet, research 
fleet, and commercial fleet. This is the material force for protecting and 
developing the oceans. Secondly, we should expand development forces so that the 
total value of output of China's marine development enters into the top ten 
listed in the world, and the marine output exceeds the world level for ratio 
within the national economy. Third, we should have China's aquatic products 
industry, sea water salt manufacturing industry, and marine medicines industry 
maintain or attain a leading position in the world, and the sea transportation 
and ocean tourism industries maintain or enter the top ten in the world. Fourth, 
we should have the level of marine S & T as well as the level of productivity in 
China enter advanced world ranks. 
In order to realize the above mentioned goals, we must carry out the following 
work: 
1. Strengthen the building of industrial zones near the sea. The formation and 
development of near sea industrial zones is one of the important marks the 
economic takeoff of many coastal nations. We should strive to basically complete 
the construction of different structural near sea industrial zones along the 
coasts of the northern gulf, Hainan Island, Gulf of Meizhou, the mouth of the 
Yangtze River, Gulf of Jiaozhou, and the Bohai Sea within the next 20 years. 
2. Realize farming and stockbreeding in ocean areas. China has vast areas of 
shoals and shallow water regions which can be used to develop the aquaculture 
and breeding industries, as well as build offshore farming and stockbreeding 
areas. We should gradually construct a group of large and super-huge aquatic 
products production bases, and at the same time rationally utilize near sea 
fishing resources and put great efforts into promoting the development of 
deep-sea and distant water fishing. 
3. Strengthen the building of a sea transportation network. Foreign economic 
relations are inseparable from world sea routes. It is estimated that by the 
year 2000, China's annual volume of marine cargo transport will reach 550 
million tons, and the traffic mileage will reach 2.25 trillion ton kilometers. 
It is for this reason that we should expand the construction of harbors, develop 
and build major routes on the South China Sea and North China Sea, guarantee 
unimpeded access to the seas in each direction, strengthen contacts with coastal 
ports of various nations throughout the world, and maintain a near sea and 
distant-ocean fleet that meets the needs of economic development with foreign 
nations. 
4. Strengthen the development of marine mineral resources, especially the 
development of offshore oil and gas fields, and at the same time actively 
explore and develop deep sea mineral resources and build the deep sea mining 
industry. 
5. Work hard to develop the seaside tourism and recreation industry. Within the 
next several decades, large-scale tourism and recreation areas with total annual 
income of approximately 10 billion yuan will be built in the Bohai Sea area, 
along the coast and on the islands of the East China Sea using Shanghai as the 
center, along the coast of the South China Sea using Guangzhou as the center, 
along the coast of Hainan Island, and along the coast of the northern gulf. 
The development and utilization of the oceans, and the development of the ocean 
economy are pressing tasks facing China, and they are problems which must be 
given attention by all of the coastal nations in the world. In one sense, by the 
next century, the success or failure in the economic competition of the oceans 
will determine the prospects and destiny of a nation. 
-- Zhou Mingjiang (Director and Professor of the Institute of Oceanography, 
Chinese Academy of Sciences) 
R & D of China's Marine S & T 
After the establishment of new China, China's marine S & T research underwent an 
arduous and tortuous process wherein it started from scratch and developed 
gradually. Its development can basically be divided into three phases: the first 
was the initial phase (1949-1956). During the first phase, the marine research 
organization attached to the Chinese Academy of Sciences was established; the 
Department of Oceanography was set up at Shandong University which specially 
trained talented persons in marine science; they developed oceanographic 
research focused on marine organisms, and established seashore observation 
stations in order to carry out scientific research and obtain necessary data. 
The second was the tortuous development phase (1957-1978). During this phase, 
they first formulated a long-term development plan for marine science research, 
organized general investigations which were coordinated on a national level, and 
successively set up the Oceanography College, National Bureau of Oceanography, 
and many marine research organizations. However, during the following ten years 
of turmoil, the development of marine science was tortuous and arduous. The 
third was the comprehensive development phase (after 1978). During this period, 
China's marine science research went beyond its closed state, there was 
extensive development of international cooperation, research methods were 
greatly increased, the scope of research was gradually expanded to the oceans, 
and advanced to the South Pole; the contents of research developed from 
qualitative descriptions to quantitative research, and dynamic and process 
research were begun. What was especially important was getting on track with the 
international community while gradually entering into the main battlefields of 
marine development and tackling key high technology projects, and actively 
participating in major ocean research plans in the forefront of the world such 
as the "World Ocean Circulation Experiment (WOCE)" and the "Tropical Ocean and 
Global Atmosphere Plan (TOGA-COARE)" in the "World Climate Research Plan," and 
the "Joint Research on Global Ocean Flux (JGOFS)," "Coastal Zone Land Ocean 
Interaction (LOICZ)," "Global Ocean Biosystem Dynamic Research and Monitoring 
(GLOBEC)," and "Ocean Drilling Plan (ODP)" in the "International Geosphere and 
Biological Plan." 
After several generations of hard work, great strides have been made in marine S 
& T in China. This has not only greatly increased China's international 
reputation and promoted the development and utilization of China's ocean 
resources, but it has also made important contributions to the development of 
China's national economy and society. The most outstanding example is, under the 
joint efforts of marine biologists and aquaculture specialists, China has 
successively made major breakthroughs in the artificial seedling growth and 
cultivation of kelp, Chinese prawns and scallops so that kelp, prawns and 
scallops have become three major mainstay industries of Chinese seaculture. It 
has also resulted in China becoming the largest seaculture nation in the world. 
Oceanographers have not only discovered "warm currents in the South China Sea," 
"branches of the Japan current in the South China Sea," as well as the 
continental shelf near sea mesoscale eddy, brought forth new understanding of 
the Mianlanlao subcurrent and Taiwan-Tsushima-Tsugaru warm current system, and 
established a marine environment numerical value prediction model, but they have 
also brought forth sedimentary and environmental evolutionary models for China's 
shelf sea to survey and appraise the tectonics of over ten large-scale oil and 
gas fields of China's continental shelf near seas as well as the iron manganese 
concretions and hydrothermal polymetallic mineral resources in specified sea 
areas floors. 
The major tasks now facing China's marine S & T is firmly grasping the two major 
problems of protecting maritime rights and interests and developing ocean 
resources, working hard in development work, making great efforts in developing 
marine high technology, carrying out focused development of marine 
biotechnology, high technology for development of ocean oil and gas resources, 
and high technology for ocean surveying. At the same time, we must also take 
research on the relationship between ocean and global changes as important 
topics for marine science research, give serious attention to disciplinary 
exchange, permeation and integration, and actively participating in large-scale 
global ocean plans so as to accelerate the development of marine science in 
China. 
In order to adapt to the new situation of international ocean competition and 
meet the needs of economic and social development in China, it is necessary to 
strengthen China's research on marine S & T. For this reason, we should raise 
the consciousness of all people regarding the oceans, and under centralized 
deployment by the State, determine limited goals, lay stress on key points, 
select key high technology which can in the near future promote the development 
of the ocean economy and carry out priority breakthroughs; strengthen joint 
cooperation, have dominating positions complement each other, and promote the 
combination and development of ocean forces throughout China; give serious 
attention to and strengthen basic scientific research and personnel training, 
bring up a new generation of scientists and technicians which possess high 
scientific attainments, abundant innovative capabilities, are adept in working 
in unity to tackle key problems, and have rational hierarchical structure; 
further enlarge the scale of capital investment, and improve and raise the 
methods and capabilities of research on marine S & T. We deeply believe that 
there will be tremendous advances made in China's marine S & T research after 
another several generations of hard work, and China will become worthy of being 
called a major and powerful maritime nation in the world. 
-- Ding Dewen (Director of the Institute of Ocean Environmental Protection, 
National Bureau of Oceanography, and Academician of the Chinese Academy of 
Engineering) 
The Protection and Sustainable Development of Ocean Environment in China 
The protection and sustainable development of ocean environment is an important 
aspect of principal environmental and development tasks at present. Research on 
the bearing capabilities and tolerance regulation and control of ocean 
environment and resources has already become a major topic in present S & T 
research. Its goal is to coordinate and protect the development of ocean 
resources while protecting the healthy development of the ocean environment, 
promote the sustainable utilization of the ocean environment, guarantee that the 
oceans bring sustained environmental and economic benefits to the happiness of 
the age of man. The consciousness regarding the environmental protection of the 
oceans has intrinsically changed in the last 20 years. Mankind has finally 
recognized that the pollution and destruction of the ocean environment since the 
industrial revolution, and especially over the last 40 years, has already 
resulted in the negative changes to the ocean environment influencing the 
survival and development of mankind on a large scale, and it even threatens the 
prospects and fortunes of the entire world. Therefore, the problem of ocean 
environment has already become one of the major problems of sustainable 
development as well as an important field of action in the "Agenda for the 21st 
Century." The coming into effect of "The United Nations Maritime Law Treaty" 
attracted even more serious attention throughout the world on the problem of the 
ocean environment. China already has a more than 20 year history of ocean 
environment protection. From 1972 with the first voyage survey of the sea area 
within 35 nautical miles from the coast on the Bohai Sea and north section of 
the Yellow Sea which unveiled China's work on ocean environment protection to 
the present, China's ocean environment protection has undergone a process of a 
series of basic construction of pollution surveys, structural construction, 
scientific research, legislation and management, routine monitoring, and special 
project monitoring, and gradually entered a period of the integration of 
surveying, monitoring, scientific research, management, and protection as well 
as the combined operation of the coastal economy. Survey and monitoring work 
involve obtaining large quantities of data and materials regarding certain sea 
areas of the Bohai, Yellow, East and South China Seas, and basically 
ascertaining the major pollutants and sources of China's near sea environment, 
the paths in which they enter the seas, the amounts which enter, the range and 
degree of pollution, and the temporal and spatial changes. A large amount of 
research work was developed in the areas of pollutant dilution, dispersion, 
shifting and transformation, pollutant concentration and geographical 
distribution, the existing forms and spatial distribution of pollutants, 
physical self-purification capabilities, the effects of pollutants on ocean 
organisms and the health of coastal inhabitants, differentiating the dumping of 
wastes in sea areas, quality appraisal and calculating of ocean environments, 
monitoring and calculating damage to ocean environments, integrated prevention 
and treatment techniques for regional pollution, etc.; they have successively 
drawn up and issued ocean environment protection laws, regulations, standards 
and norms; academic groups and periodicals related to ocean environment have 
continuously appeared; international cooperation and exchange is becoming 
increasingly vigorous; and broad relations have been established with 
organizations related to the United Nations regarding ocean environment 
protection. 

At present, China's ocean environment protection situation is still very grim. 
The environmental quality of many near sea river openings, bays, as well as 
large and medium-sized cities near oceans has declined year after year, and the 
pollution discharge from land sources has become the major cause of near shore 
pollution; organic matter, nutrient salts, and petroleum substances have already 
become the major pollutants of near shore sea areas. Red tides, oil spills, and 
virus incidents have frequently occurred; and there has been serious damage to 
coastal mangrove forests and coral reefs. The prominent problems confronting 
China's near sea and especially near shore sea areas are: a continual increase 
in the amount of waste water discharged from land sources, intensification of 
coastal eutrophication, and explosive environmental damage will further 
increase, the local coastal sea functions will deteriorate, and the basic damage 
to resources will be intensified. 
The ocean environment protection work of China carries a very heavy burden, and 
it requires the support of S & T. For a long period of time into the future, the 
focus of S&T research for China's ocean environment protection will be: 
appraisal and applied research on the pollution acceptance capabilities of the 
ocean environment, research on the monitoring, prevention and treatment 
techniques for organic pollutants in the oceans, research on monitoring 
techniques for near sea biological organisms and deposits, research on high 
technology three-dimensional monitoring system integration and ocean environment 
protection information systems, research on emergency monitoring, control and 
appraisal systems for environmental disasters, as well as research on the 
development of ocean environment protection commercialized technical products; 
it is necessary to pay even greater attention to system theories as well as the 
research and development of methods for polluted, cultivation, disaster, 
construction and resources environments with the scientific research on ocean 
environments, and at the same time absorb and utilize the theories and methods 
of the geographical sciences, system science, environmental economics, 
non-linear theories, and modern management. 

As for China, the golden age of S&T research on ocean environment protection is 
upcoming, and its achievements will provide scientific basis and technical 
support for China to deeply develop ocean environment protection work. This will 
effectively prevent, lighten and control the pollution damage of land and sea 
life on the ocean environment, and then we will have the integrated handling of 
resources and the environment. 
