Zou Jiahua Urges Law Enforcement Against Sea Pollution

Beijing, 12 Aug (Xinhua) -- Zou Jiahua, vice chairman of 
the National People's Congress [NPC] Standing Committee, today indicated that, 
in view of the increasing seriousness of ocean environment pollution, 
governments at all levels must attach great attention to the protection of ocean 
environment, and strengthen the enforcement of the Ocean Environment Protection 
Law. At the same time, people's congresses at all levels must intensify their 
supervision on the enforcement of the law. 
Zou Jiahua made the above remarks at the second plenary meeting of the NPC 
Standing Committee's law enforcement inspection teams on ocean environment 
protection. 
In May and June this year, the NPC Standing Committee organized three teams to 
inspect the implementation of the Ocean Environment Protection Law in Hainan, 
Liaoning, and Shandong Provinces. Eight provinces, autonomous regions, and 
municipalities including Shanghai and Tianjin also conducted self-inspections. 
At today's meeting, the relevant inspection teams reported on their inspections. 

As learned, China is a large maritime country with nearly 18,000 kilometers of 
coastline and several million square kilometers of sea area under its 
jurisdiction. The ocean is a treasure trove for sustainable development of the 
Chinese people. However, the overall standard of China's ocean development at 
present is not high. Pollution of the ocean environment is growing worse. 
Particularly worrying is the pollution in coastal waters. 
Zou Jiahua urged all levels of leading cadres to properly handle the 
relationship between ocean usage and protection. He said that, in coastal 
regions, protecting the ocean environment and resources is equivalent to 
protecting the important material foundation upon which livelihood and 
development rest. Sustainable development will become empty talk if this 
foundation is destroyed. We must not regard the ocean as a dumping ground. 
He said: Governments at all levels must, in accordance with the law, strengthen 
their supervision over coastal construction projects, offshore oil explorations 
and exploitation, navigating vessels, dumping of refuse into the sea, and 
discharge of pollutants from land. They must also, in accordance with the law, 
force enterprises that seriously pollute the ocean environment to close down, 
halt operation, merge with others, change operation, or move away. 
Zou Jiahua said the NPC must, through law enforcement supervision, check and 
rectify problems of failing to abide by the law or failing to strictly enforce 
the law, in order to protect the ocean environment. It must revise the existing 
Ocean Environment Protection Law based on problems discovered during the 
inspections. 

In their reports, the inspection teams pointed out that since the Ocean 
Environment Protection Law was promulgated in 1983, various departments and 
localities have strengthened their supervision on ocean environment in 
accordance with the law and have achieved a certain amount of success. But there 
still exist very serious problems: 
First, polluted coastal waters continue to expand. By 1994, the percentage of 
all China's coastal waters with excessive inorganic nitrogen has risen above 70 
percent. 

Second, frequent incidents of ocean pollution. According to incomplete 
statistics, nearly 380 cases of red tide were discovered in Chinese waters from 
1980 to the end of last year, averaging over 20 cases a year, with more than 30 
cases found each year in the 1990s. 
Furthermore, the ocean ecosystem also suffers serious destruction, and the 
problem of pollutants being discharged from land into the ocean is also quite 
prominent. 
The inspection teams also gave suggestions and proposals on how to resolve the 
problems. 
