PRC: Impact of Red Tides on Coastal Economy

    "What is more expansive than the earth is the ocean, what is more expansive 
than the ocean is the sky, and what is more expansive than the sky is the mind 
of man."   This is a familiar maxim that people have heard many times.

    However, when people's minds are filled with greed and shortsightedness, how 
can we look to the ocean and continue to maintain our tolerance and patience?   
Faced with unbearable filth and extortion, the indignant ocean finally is 
reticent no longer and has begun to take revenge with an eye for an eye!

    The red tide is a red warning emitted to mankind from the ocean.

    So-called red tide refers to ocean waters changing into red, yellow, brown, 
and other different colors after the fulminating propagation of ocean plankton.  
 In places where red tides go, the fish die as a result of a lack of oxygen or 
algae sticking into the gills of fish wherein they will suffocate within several 
minutes.

    Red tide is the ocean environmental disaster formed after the eutrophication 
level of the ocean waters is continuously aggravated, and the discharge of large 
quantities of city sewage, industrial waste water, and ocean water cultivation 
sewage induce the chief offender of the red tide disaster.

    From March until April of 1998, the northern area of the South China Sea had 
an outbreak of red tide that was the most serious that this area had ever 
recorded.   During the last ten days of February, a yellowish-black algae tide 
had already begun to crop up in Shanwei in Guangdong Province.   At the 
beginning of March, the increasingly large red tide began its attack on the 
mouth of the Pearly River.   During the middle ten days of March, the evil 
shadow of the red tide appeared in the Da Peng Bay of Shenzhen.   On March 19, 
the red tide dispatched its troops to the sea surface at Xigong in Hong Kong, 
and it quickly swept across the coastal waters of Hong Kong going from east to 
west.   At the beginning of April, the red tide again occupied the sea area of 
Guishandao in Zhuhai City... [as published]

    This tremendously disastrous red tide troublemaker with a range reaching 
several thousand kilometers is an ever-accumulating sea environment pollution.   
In 1997 alone, the mouth of the Pearl River and offshore area discharged 2.9 
billion tons of domestic sewage into the sea, less than 10% of it was treated, 
and the industrial and agricultural sewage discharged into the sea was even more 
difficult to calculate.   Given this serious pollution, how could the sea not 
turn hostile?

    The damage from the red tide is accelerating at an alarming rate year after 
year.

    Since the founding of the Republic until 1996, there was never any red tide 
that occurred off the coast of Jiangsu, but during the period from 1997 to 1998, 
4 red tides occurred successively, and the area of the red tide had already 
reached 800 square kilometers in 1998.

    In 1992, in the western sea region of Hainan Province alone, 17 red tides 
were found involving a sea area of 100 to 200 square kilometers.

    More than 10 red tides break out in the Bohai Sea each year.   In 1999, 
after a red tide with a scale reaching 1,500 square kilometers in the sea area 
occurred near the fork of Beicangzhou, in only a space of less than 10 days 
another especially large red tide broke out in the sea area from Bayuquan and 
Yingkou to Hulu Island.   The seawater with various frightful colors ranging 
from brown, yellow and pink to violet and crimson obliterated the azure blue 
surface of the sea beyond recognition, and it spread over an area of 6,300 
square kilometers.

    In recent years, approximately 20 red tides have occurred each year in the 
East China Sea.   During the period from 1993 to 1997, 132 red tides were 
discovered in the East China Sea thus becoming the sea area with the most 
frequent red tide disasters.

    Monitoring information from the National Bureau of Oceanography shows that: 
during the period from 1972 to 1979, only 20 red tides have been discovered in 
the sea areas of China.   Beginning at the end of the 1980s, there was a drastic 
increase in the number of red tides that have occurred each year, 12 red tides 
were discovered in 1989, 26 were discovered in 1990, this increased to nearly 30 
by 1992, and after this, the number of red tides discovered each year has 
already surpassed 30.   According to incomplete statistics, during the period 
from 1980 to 1997, nearly 380 red tides were discovered in the seawaters of 
China.

    Even more serious is the fact that the destructive force of red tides has 
been insanely expanding.   In 1998, the 22 red tides monitored by the National 
Bureau of Oceanography were not only wide in range, had long sustained times, 
and large appearance densities, but they all occurred during the three seasons 
of spring, summer and autumn.   All of the sea areas of the Bohai Sea, East 
China Sea, Yellow Sea, and South China Sea in China seem to be going crazy for 
everywhere there are discolored and frightening seas!

    Red tides are destructive to the devastation of the marine fishing industry, 
and after the red tides, which are called "rust water," "stinking water" and 
"cow dung water" by the fishermen who have been deeply harmed, have swept 
passed, there are innumerable dead bodies of fish and shrimp floating on the sea 
that stretch across this frightening and miserable scene as far as the eye can 
see.   The resulting economic losses are sometimes as high as several hundred 
million yuan.

    The Zhoushan Fish Farm is a renowned "fish repository" of China, and during 
the period from 1993 to 1994, the sea areas neat Zhoushan have had nearly 20 red 
tides, and this has resulted in a heavy strike made against the sea farming 
industry in offshore shoals and sea waters.

    In August of 1989, the largest scale red tide ever monitored in the Bohai 
Sea occurred in the coastal waters of Huanghua City, the sustained times reached 
72 hours, and the frightening blood color rolled on 9,000 square kilometers of 
sea surface.   Innumerable shrimp farms that had been labored on so hard for 
many years were wiped out in an instant, and the direct economic losses were 
approximately 200 million yuan.

    During the period from September to the middle ten days of October of 1998, 
the Bohai Sea repeatedly had especially large red tides, the sustained time 
reached over 40 days, and when it was wreaking the most havoc, the red tide 
covered over 5,000 square kilometers coastal sea area of Liaoning, Hebei, 
Tianjin and Shandong wherein much aquaculture area was serious hit, a large 
batch of bred shrimp died, and the direct economic losses reached over 120 
million yuan.

    Tremendous red tide calamity occurred in the harbors and coast of Guangdong 
Province from March to April of 1998, the local fishermen saw the carcass of the 
fish that they had expended so much effort in breeding spread all over the sea, 
and being at a loss of what to do they wanted to cry but could not shed a tear.  
 Guangdong Province alone had over 300 tons of farm fish that died, and 24 of 
the 26 fish breeding regions of Hong Kong were completely wiped out.   This red 
tide disaster brought grievous losses of 250 million yuan to Macao and Hong 
Kong.

    The greatest sufferer that was most directly effected by the pollution of 
the marine environment created by mankind is no other than the fishing industry 
which is the economic lifeline of mankind.

    Based on estimates of departments of the fishing industry: among the 
destructive factors of China's fishing industry, excessive fishing makes up 49%, 
and pollution of the marine environment comprises 51%.

    From the Bohai Sea to the Yellow Sea, and from the East China Sea to the 
South China Sea, following the coast line of China being carded from north to 
south, we cannot but tremble in our hearts, where it seems that all of China's 
offshore areas in the Bay of Dalian, Bay of Liaodong, Jinzhou Bay, Qinhuang 
Island, Laizhou Bay, Jiaozhou Bay, Lianyun Bay, the mouth of the Changjiang, 
Hangzhou Bay, Zhoushan Fish Farm, Dongshan Bay, Xiamen, Zhanjiang Harbor, the 
mouth of the Pearl River straight up to the coast of Guangxi are mired in 
serious pollution, and these areas were historically high yield areas of China's 
marine fishing industry.

   The coastal sea area of the East China Sea had previously abounded with belt 
fish, large and small yellow croaker, Spanish mackerel, Chinese herring, 
cuttlefish, jellyfish, and many other types of economic fishes well known 
throughout the world, and the fish farms along the coast were too numerous to 
count.   However, following the continuous exacerbation of pollution, the 
fishing industry resources in the river openings and coastal sea areas have 
already seriously declined, the fish farms have been forced to move to open sea 
areas, fewer and fewer fish are being caught, and the fish that are being caught 
are becoming increasingly small.   There are already no traces of many fish 
spawning farms.

    The rich and fertile sea areas renowned throughout the world for sea 
products at the mouth of the Changjiang, Zhoushan, etc. have already completely 
deteriorated from third category sea water of several years ago into fourth 
category sea water, and the misfortune of the complete annihilation of fish and 
shrimp pressing forward steadily.   In the past, the Zhoushan fish farms were a 
source of infinite pride for Chinese as well as some of the fish spawning farms 
at the mouth of the river have already been completely exterminated, and the 
plankton and benthos that served as the fish food chain are diminishing daily.   
Chengsitanxu, Daxiangshan, etc. had been regions where fish and shrimp filled 
the warehouses, but with the besieging of pollution from Shanghai and Qiantang 
River, the jellyfish and other offshore resources have already basically dried 
up.   The red tides that have repeatedly occurred in the East China Sea have 
intermittently brought fatal blows to seawater cultivation, the plant disease 
and insect pests are becoming increasingly intense, and there is tragic 
premature death for planted seedlings and saplings.

    Since the 1990s, there has been drastic reduction in the variety of organism 
in the serious disaster area of marine pollution, namely the Bohai Sea, the 
dominant populations have basically disappeared, the large-scale fish resources 
have nearly been totally destroyed, the small-scale fish and shrimp resources 
are also quickly degenerating, and the fishing industry resources of the Bohai 
Sea, China's famous "fish repository," are already on the point of drying up.

    The destruction to the breeding farms and sapling growing farms in Jinzhou 
Bay has been disastrous, and is already beyond any help.

    Some major seedling growth farms and sapling farms the produce fish, shrimp 
and crabs for economic purposes in the Bohai Bay have nearly become azoic areas.

    The silver fish and river crabs abundantly produced in the past in the area 
of the river opening of the Laizhou Bay have already basically disappeared.

    The anchovies of the Liaodong Bay that were once world renown have already 
completely vanished, and the fish farms are just one step away from being 
thoroughly abandoned.

    The annual yield of the three major bloody clam farms in Jinzhou Bay, Bohai 
Bay and Liazhou Bay which are commonly called the Bohai Sea had reached over 3 
million tons but the pollution originating from the coast killed a large amount 
of the bloody clams so that to date there is already no yield at all.   The 
losses have reached several tens of million yuan, and the local fishermen who 
had made a living catching bloody clams are without a livelihood.

    At its peak, the annual yield of shrimp from the Bohai Sea was 30,000 tons, 
and the exports abroad vied for a large amount of the foreign currency for the 
nation.   With the intensification of the pollution, the yield of shrimp has 
dropped drastically year after year.   Beginning from 1984, they were forced to 
begin a "breeding release," in 1989 alone 2.2 billion shrimp were shrimp 
saplings were released, the very costly remedial measures continued for over ten 
years all to no avail, and the annual yield in recent years has only wavered 
between 1,000 and 3,000 tons.

    At present, the fishermen along the coast of the Bohai Sea who are getting 
on in years often cannot contain their emotions in recollecting the past during 
the 1950s and 1960s when they would come back from sea with boats filled with 
fish, that all of this glory has already gone and will not come back, and that 
what is left is only limitless melancholy and dreariness.   The assertion of the 
experts is: the production capabilities of the fishing industry in the Bohai Sea 
have already reached the critical point of being irrecoverable and irreversible.

    An irrefutable fact is that the marine fishing industry of China is now 
sustaining a ruinous attack, and sustainable development has already fell into 
an unprecedented crisis.   Based on estimates by fishing industry departments, 
not counting the acute pollution accidents of oil spills at sea, etc., the 
non-acute pollution caused by long-term discharge of waste water and other 
factors alone will result in annual losses to the fishing industry in the waters 
of Bohai Sea, Yellow Sea, and East China Sea reaching 410,000 tons, with a value 
of 2.381 billion yuan Renminbi.   If we added on the losses of the sea area of 
the South China Sea, it is then even more difficult to estimate.

    Another unsettling fact is: in recent years, the acute and explosive 
incidences of dead fish and shrimp occurring are several thousand per year.   
The fishermen who have lost their means of livelihood in some locations are at 
the end of their rope, they frequently come to the capital and appeal to higher 
authorities for help, besiege and disturb units, and have even committed suicide 
as a show of protest.

    Even more frightening is the unannounced arrival of poisonous fish and 
shrimp as well as marine viruses.

    In many coastal areas with serious pollution, with every ebb tide and on 
every beach there are many dead fish with bloated bellies lying everywhere, and 
when a dead fish is randomly cut open, there is found a belly full of muddy 
slime mixed with pollutants that comes oozing out, and there is also a heavy 
diesel oil smell that comes forth to assault the nose.

    In the Bohai Sea areas with very serious pollution of heavy metals, large 
quantities of toxic elements are transferred into the human body through the 
food chain by fish.   The fishermen in many areas along the coast of the Bohai 
Sea have detected mercury, lead, arsenic, and other toxins from their hair with 
levels that far surpass normal values, and the occurrence rates of cancer and 
other diseases is now sharply rising.

    In December of 1986, residents in Dongshan County, Fujian Province ate 
"Philippine clams" in a red tide contaminated area and this resulted in the 
tragedy of 136 poisonings and one death.   At one time, the Dongshan County 
Hospital was filled with patients suffering from this and the groans went on 
continuously.

    In 1988, an "epidemic of hepatitis A" broke out in Shanghai and along the 
coast of Jiangsu Province, and this caused people to quiver even today.   During 
that year, owing to the fact that bloody clams from the East China Sea infected 
with viruses began to be held in great esteem, in Shanghai along 310,000 
residents unknowingly contracted hepatitis A, and some people could not be cured 
and died from this.   To this very day, residents in this region still change 
color when "bloody clams" are mentioned, and local bloody clam resources have 
had no way of being used again.

    This is a true story of that provides much material for thought: during the 
initial period of reforms and liberalization, a group of Japanese went to make 
an investigation in Xiamen, and after tasting locally produced fish on a dining 
table, they praised it over and over again: "Gosh, it is actually the same type 
of fish but in Japan it has a very poor taste, how is it that it is so delicious 
here in Xiamen?"   A Chinese marine specialist present at the time being very 
clear-headed said with some anxiety: "That is because present industry in China 
is still quite backwards and there is not much pollution, but perhaps in a few 
years the fish here will also be able to follow in the tracks of Japan."   This 
statement unfortunately hit the nail right on the head so that when fish are now 
caught at Xiamen, many have a heavy gasoline smell and they are basically 
inedible.

    If, faced with the red warning of the indignant sea, mankind continues this 
craziness and foolishness over and over again, that there will be one day the 
mankind will have to face a filthy-colored sea, an unbearably dirty sea, and a 
sea where the fish and shrimp have been exterminated.   Let us remember the 
words of warning to the world by a Western philosopher: "All of the unfairness 
of mankind to nature will naturally all be avenged in double."

    The seas are the initial cradles of life, and it is just because the seas 
nurtured the most primitive plankton was there able to be step by step evolution 
into the higher forms of live until the birth of mankind.   From this 
perspective, the seas are the mother of mankind.   Following the progressive 
crowding of land space and the gradual drying up of land resources, mankind's 
regression to the sea has already become a necessary fate, and from this 
perspective, the seas are then the last home of mankind.

    The only thing is, can mankind still return to its mother's embrace?   Can 
it safeguard its last home?

    We can perhaps find a profound answer from the shifting of the channel and 
inland sea of Japan.   During the 1960s and 1970s, heavy industry dominated by 
the chemical industry was densely distributed along the coast of the channel and 
inland sea, the pollution that piled up over the years ultimately brought about 
bad results, and the channel and inland sea had been judged to be a "dead sea."  
 The Japanese were shocked, they thoroughly readjusted their industrial 
structure, moved out all of the polluting industries, set up a large number of 
waste water processing plants, mobilized the entire population to participate in 
controls and supervision, initiated a national rescue operation, and specially 
formulated a series of protective laws and regulations for the channel and 
inland sea so that more fear could be generated.   After more than ten years, 
the waters of channel and inland sea are clean and the fish have returned, and 
the annual yield of fish has reached 600,000-700,000 tons.   The miracle of 
bringing the "dead sea" back to life for the channel and inland sea has been 
accomplished.

    It is certainly the case that, only if there is ardent love like that of a 
newborn baby and it is offered up will the seas reciprocate with kindness of a 
mother.   Whether or not the innermost repentance of mankind is pious, and 
whether or not the rescue operations of mankind are prompt shall decide the 
future fate of the seas, and it shall also determine the future fate of mankind.

      Mankind, wake up!

