Status, Requirements for Nation's Spaceborne-SAR Ocean Applications

1. Status of Foreign and Domestic Spaceborne-SAR Ocean Applications and Applied 
Technology 
1. Status of spaceborne-SAR ocean applications 
Spaceborne-SAR (synthetic aperture radar) has captured the attention of 
oceanographic circles worldwide for its all-weather full-time global-ocean 
high-resolution imaging and observation capabilities. Since the launch of the 
European Remote-Sensing Satellite, (ERS-1) over a decade ago, various nations 
have committed voluminous manpower and resources to SAR ocean applied research. 
SAR ocean applications are already providing notable social and economic 
benefits; its resource applications are expanding daily in breadth and depth, 
and its development trend is from qualitative to quantitative determinations and 
from experimental to service applications. The full-scale spaceborne-SAR 
resources applications stage will accompany the arrival of the new century. 
Spaceborne-SAR ocean remote sensing in China began in the early 1990s. The State 
"863" Program's Spaceborne-SAR Ocean Applied Research and "Sino-Canadian Space 
SAR Sea-Ice Experimental Applied Research" projects were completed in the Eighth 
5-Year Plan (FYP). 
China is now engaged in the "China Littoral Radarsat Resources Applied Research" 
and "Radarsat Sea-Ice Monitoring Research" projects. China's efforts in 
spaceborne-SAR ocean applications over the past 6 years have narrowed the gap 
with advanced world levels and laid a foundation for further development in SAR 
applied research. 

(1) Ocean-Wave Research 
One of the important benefits of spaceborne-SAR ocean applications is the 
ability to observe waves on the surface of the ocean from space, and have direct 
access to their length, direction, diffraction and refraction characteristics. 
There are three primary applications for spaceborne-SAR ocean-wave data: ocean 
wave forecasting, ocean engineering, and oceanography. Western European 
countries are using two-dimensional directional wave-spectrum data from ERS SAR 
observations for ocean-wave count forecasts to improve the accuracy of ocean 
wave forecasting. Chinese and Dutch scientists are using ERS-1 and Japanese 
JERS-1 SAR data to study the effects of ocean waves on coastal erosion and 
inshore engineering. U.S. scientists and others are using wide-range ocean-wave 
field information from spaceborne-SAR to study the formation and spread of long 
ocean waves on the open seas and the diffraction and refraction of inshore 
waves. These three applications aspects are now in the early stages of research, 
but they will be important to future spaceborne-SAR ocean-wave data applications 
research. 

(2) Internal waves 
SAR imaging by Seasat-1 satellites has produced voluminous internal-wave images 
of various seas around the world, providing a wealth of resources for applied 
research on internal waves, and the SAR data applications have exposed many of 
the temporo-spatial distribution characteristics of internal waves. 
Information on relative wave group velocities, thermocline depths, seawater 
density variations and internal wave generation sources have been obtained via 
measurements of wave-group space intervals. These studies have vastly increased 
man's understanding of internal waves. Spaceborne-SAR internal-wave data are now 
being used in marine military and economic fields (such as submarine actions and 
offshore oil platform design). Real-time spaceborne-SAR internal-wave imaging is 
also being used to direct on-site scientific recording activities by 
oceanographic research ships, thereby cutting research costs. Chinese scientists 
are also engaged in spaceborne-SAR ocean internal-wave observation research, and 
are studying the spatial characteristics and generation mechanisms of internal 
waves in the northwestern Dongsha islands [Pratas group]. 

(3) Shallow-water depths and underwater topography 
Military and economic benefits of conducting shallow-water bathymetric and 
underwater topographic mensuration by spaceborne-SAR have captured worldwide 
attention. Since the launch of the U.S. Seasat-1 in 1978, the U.S., FSU, and 
west European nations have made great advances in spaceborne-SAR shallow-water 
bathymetric and underwater topographic research. For example, the "Water-Depth 
Measuring System" developed by the Netherlands has used spaceborne-SAR data and 
other measurement resources to chart water depths over a wide ocean area and 
experimental zones with absolute measuring accuracy down to 30 centimeters. 
Chinese scientists have used ERS-1 SAR imagery to probe the underwater 
topography of the northwest Penglai, Shandong sea area, and they have obtained 
detailed landform characteristics of the Dengzhou shoals. Spaceborne-SAR 
shallow-water bathymetry and underwater topography are still in the qualitative 
description stage, but quantitative investigations are the future development 
trend. 

(4) Sea ice 
Spaceborne-SAR has all-weather and full-time operational advantages. It is 
particularly effective for monitoring polar and high-latitude sea ice. Seasat-1, 
ERS-1, ERS-2 and Radarsat are all equipped for sea-ice monitoring. 
Spaceborne-SAR sea-ice monitoring has now reached the services and sea-ice 
information product stage. Norway now issues products based on ERS SAR imaging 
that describe sea-ice density, type, delineation and drift, and provides 
real-time sea-ice forecast services to oil platforms, ships and icebreakers. In 
1995, relevant Chinese units cooperated with the Canadian Remote-Sensing Center 
in spaceborne-SAR sea-ice monitoring applications experiments in Liaodong Bay 
with good results. Scientists are also using spaceborne-SAR sea-ice data to 
study sea-ice dynamics and temperature coupling processes and the interworkings 
of sea-ice and the ocean, and global temperature change. 

(5) Coastal belt 
Radar backscatter imaging provides new data for coastal-belt remote sensing. 
Spaceborne-SAR imaging of coastal belts is used mainly for coastal-belt resource 
investigations and the monitoring of dynamic changes in the environment. Through 
ERS-1 SAR image decoding, concerned Chinese units have charted the geomorphic 
features of the Penglai and Yantai coastal belts of Shandong. The United States 
and the Netherlands have used spaceborne-SAR data to monitor the dynamic changes 
of intertidal zones. 

(6) Marine oil pollution 
Spaceborne-SAR monitoring of oil pollution at sea is primarily used for 
detecting oil pollution, estimating its range, and monitoring its spread. 
However, it is not yet possible to estimate the thickness of oil slicks or 
distinguish the types of oil. Some developed countries are setting up oil 
pollution monitoring systems that encompass the use of spaceborne SAR, aircraft 
and ships. They are setting up oil-pollution monitoring services, something that 
China has not yet attempted. 

(7) Surface ships 
At certain wind speeds and sea surface conditions spaceborne-SAR can readily 
ascertain the sizes, positions, courses and speeds of surface ships. This 
information is obtained for naval ships, monitoring navigation channels and 
assisting ships in distress. U.S. scientists have recently been studying the use 
of density spectra and wave-gradient change spectra from spaceborne-SAR images 
of ship wakes to calculate the contours of cruising ships. It does not yet 
satisfy applicability requirements, but it is an important facet of 
spaceborne-SAR ship detection research. 

(8) Submarines 
Detection and tracking of enemy submarines are critical challenges of ASW, and 
the U.S., FSU, and other western nations have been working steadily for many 
years to develop spaceborne-SAR submarine-detection technology. The U.S. can now 
find the wakes of submarines cruising offshore under moderate wind conditions, 
and large sums have been expended to develop new submarine detection methods by 
spaceborne-SAR under all sea conditions. During the 8th FYP, China began 
laboratory research into the principles of submarine detection, and applying 
only a theoretical understanding of the factors of applying SAR in offshore 
light-wind conditions, the laboratory has proposed an entirely new improved 
technology and developed a laboratory detection system that can be used under 
any conditions. This system represents a breakthrough in theory and technology. 
2. The Present State of Spaceborne-SAR Ocean Applied Technology 
Various countries, while putting great effort into spaceborne-SAR ocean 
applications research, are also paying much attention to the development of 
spaceborne-SAR ocean applied technology. There has been considerable progress, 
and some new applied technology meets service application requirements. In 
general, however, the technology is still quite new and limited to pelagic 
applications. Developing applied technology and putting it to use are still big 
tasks ahead for spaceborne-SAR ocean remote-sensing. China's spaceborne-SAR 
ocean applied technology research began in 1991, and has grown rather well 
through such programs as the "ERS-1 remote sensing of sea temperatures, ocean 
waves, sea ice and sea-surface elevation," "Airborne submarine-wake detection 
and tracking system," and "SAR sea-surface characteristics imaging mechanisms 
and information extraction methods research." In many aspects it is up to the 
international levels of the early 1990s, but it is still well behind today's 
advanced world level. 

(1) The essentials of applied technology 
Spaceborne-SAR applied technology involves radar and sea surface interactions, 
oceanic processes and phenomena relative to Bragg wave modulation mechanisms, 
and spaceborne-SAR sea-surface image processing. Research on these mechanisms is 
the key to making breakthroughs in spaceborne-SAR applied technology, and it is 
the basis for optimum selection of SAR parameters and the processing and 
interpretation of images. 
Radar-wave/sea-surface interaction is a very complex process. Much 
experimentation and many years of theoretical research have not produced the 
best model for describing the sea-surface radar backscatter process. Two-scale 
models (also called combined models), which are considered the best models 
today, take into account resonant scatter, and include the long-wave induced 
Kirchoff scatter action on the radar-backscatter cross section (RCS), which 
satisfactorily explains most of the observed sea-surface radar echo properties. 
But, two-scale modeling cannot describe radar backscatter under all ocean 
environmental conditions, and SAR imaging qualitative interpretation 
requirements are a difficult challenge. Therefore, further experimentation and 
theoretical research is needed to correct current theories and models. 
Two-scale modeling shows that when the angle of incidence is in the 20-70 degree 
range, Bragg scatter is the main scatter on the ocean surface, the short waves 
being chiefly radar waves. What is recorded by spaceborne-SAR imaging is the 
spatial distribution of the short waves. The other oceanic processes and 
phenomena are observed by the SAR through changes in the spatial distribution of 
the short waves, which makes the extraction of information on oceanic processes 
and phenomena of utmost importance in gaining an understanding of their Bragg 
wave modulation mechanisms. The modulation mechanisms, such as wave-wave and 
wave-flow interactions, are fairly well understood, but other modulation 
mechanisms await further study, and existing models need improvement. 
The Doppler shift of radar echo signals and random ocean movement complicates 
the process of spaceborne-SAR sea-surface imaging. For example, ocean movement 
causes nonlinear distortion in spaceborne-SAR sea-surface images, tending to cut 
off high wave counts and displace their peak values. Several studies have been 
done worldwide to clear up spaceborne-SAR image processing, including simulation 
of spaceborne-SAR sea-surface image processing, and synchronized on-site and 
spaceborne-SAR observations. Chinese scientists have used interferometric SAR 
(INSAR) theory to probe spaceborne SAR ocean-wave image processing, and have 
achieved advances in their knowledge. 

(2) Applied technology 
Spaceborne-SAR marine applied technology primarily involves three activities: 
essential marine factors inversion technology, marine target detection and 
discrimination technology, and ocean information extraction technology. 
Advancements in basic applied technology research leads to advances in 
development of applied technology, which is then followed by advancements in 
spaceborne-SAR ocean applications. 
Ocean-wave spectrum and shallow-water depth inversion techniques are key aspects 
in the study of essential marine inversion technology research. The Monte Carlo 
technique was once used internationally in converting ocean wave spectra and SAR 
imaging spectra. The advent of relational nonlinear conversion in 1990 propelled 
the advancement of ocean-wave spectrum inversion techniques by boosting accuracy 
and speed of inversion. Advances have also been made recently in ocean-wave 
spectrum inversion techniques for SAR imaging spectra. The wave refraction 
principle for water-depth inversion models is quite easy to use, with familiar 
technology well developed in recent years. Water-depth inversion technology, 
based on the hydrodynamic modulation theory, has developed rapidly, and should 
be nearing the application stage in the near future. Chinese scientists have 
also been forging ahead with research on ocean-wave spectrum and shallow-water 
depth inversion technology, but they are still well behind foreign efforts 
overall. 
The major objectives of ocean target monitoring and discrimination are ocean 
oil-pollution monitoring and ship identification. These are now realities in a 
number of western countries. and are being improved. Automatic rapid monitoring 
and identification technology is also under development. Ocean target monitoring 
and recognition technology has not yet been formally initiated in China. 
Ocean information extraction technology includes technology for the extraction 
of sea ice, coastal belt and internal wave information. International 
developments include visual interpretation and computerized automatic 
information extraction technology capable of extracting qualitative, 
semi-quantitative and quantitative ocean information. Ocean information 
extraction technology, however, is still far short of meeting ocean application 
requirements, and new developments here are urgently needed. China has done much 
work on and is well grounded in ocean information extraction technical 
development. 

(3) Image processing 
Speckle noise eradication and image compounding are two primary aspects of 
spaceborne-SAR image processing. Speckle noise is created by the coherence of 
backscatter signals from the ocean's surface and radar transmission signals. The 
speckle noise effect inhibits image discrimination and application. There are 
two methods of speckle noise eradication in use domestically and abroad: 
multi-look processing before imaging and filtering after imaging. However, even 
after multi-look processing, SAR images still consist of about 30 percent noise; 
and filtering during speckle noise eradication blurs peripheral information. 
Speckle noise eradication thus remains a difficult question. Combined SAR 
images, and combining SAR images with thematic mapping makes extraction of 
coastal belt and ocean information easier and more accurate. A number of 
techniques for combining images now exist, but they need improvement; for 
example, accurate geometric matching of images and methods of combining 
frequency bands need more study. 
2. China's Spaceborne SAR-Ocean Applications Requirements 
China is a major maritime nation with over 18,000 kilometers (km) of coastline 
and 4.85 million square km of natural ocean area covering the Bo Hai, Yellow 
Sea, and the East and South China Seas. The "International Convention on the Law 
of the Sea" stipulates, and China advocates, China's territorial domain over 
about 3 million square km of territorial waters, equivalent to 24 percent of 
China's territory. China's extensive territorial seas and coastal belts are rich 
in water, mining, biological, chemical, petroleum, power generation, spatial and 
tourism resources. The littoral area is an important physical base for China's 
economic and social development. Over 400 million people live in the coastal 
zones and the gross value of maritime economic output is up to 140 billion yuan. 
The gross value of industrial and agricultural output of the coastal zones 
equals about 60 percent of the gross national output. The ocean and coastal belt 
supports and stimulates the economic development of the entire coastal and 
inland areas. As the Four Modernizations progress, China's social and economic 
development will become more and more dependent on the ocean and coastal belt. 
China's coastal social and economic development profits from the ocean and it is 
limited by the ocean. The ocean controls atmospheric circulation and the natural 
water cycle, changes in the geographical temperature distribution patterns, 
affects climate change, and creates weather hazards. Ocean-bred disasters 
threaten human life and economic losses in the coastal zones. Unwise development 
and use of the ocean and coastal belts are the sources of a range of resource 
and environmental problems. This is why sensible development and effective 
marine protection are indispensable components of China's resources and 
environmental development efforts. 
Global economic development, runaway population growth and depletion of land 
resources are causing maritime nations to increase regard of their maritime 
territories and resources. Since the passage of the U.N. International 
Convention on the Law of the Sea in 1982 stipulating 12-nautical-mile 
territorial rights and 200-mile special economic zones, the demarcation of 
territorial seas between China and its neighboring countries has become a daily 
growing problem. Russia, Japan, North and South Korea, Vietnam, the 
Phillippines, Indonesia, Brunei and Malaysia have singularly announced their 
jurisdictional claims on territories and islands belonging to China. China is 
faced with the urgent task of protecting its maritime rights. China's long-range 
mission, extending from now and into the next century, will be the protection of 
its maritime rights, rational development of its marine resources, scientific 
protection of the marine environment, and the prevention and reduction of 
oceanic disasters. Mastery of science and technology is essential to 
accomplishing these goals. A critical ingredient of that S&T is ocean 
remote-sensing technology. Ocean remote-sensing technology can provide 
instantaneous information covering a wide range of ocean space, revealing the 
spatial characteristics of a myriad of rapidly changing essential marine 
elements, such as chlorophyll and ocean waves, not obtainable instantaneously by 
other methods. Ocean remote-sensing technology can provide continuous access to 
oceanic data globally for many years, even decades. It is very difficult to 
monitor even partial ocean areas by conventional investigative methods, not to 
mention global coverage. The measurement of essential ocean ingredients such as 
the roughness of the ocean surface can only be done by remote sensing. Ocean 
remote-sensing technology and conventional investigative methods together form a 
three-dimensional coastal, spatial, surface and underwater ocean observation 
system for extracting data of utmost importance in the fields of maritime 
rights, resources, the environment, disaster reduction and scientific research. 
The spaceborne SAR, one of the important ocean remote-sensing instruments, is 
capable of multiband, multipolarization, multi-look and 
multi-angle-of-depression observation. Unlike visual and IR remote-sensing 
instruments, it has all-weather 24-hour observation capability. Also, it has a 
high-spatial resolution imaging capability that radar altimeters and microwave 
radiometers do not have. It can observe ocean waves, internal waves, sea-floor 
topography, shallow water depths, peripheral currents, eddies and crests. It can 
monitor oil film pollution, and the movements of ships and coastal belts. It is 
unmatched in applications potential in the fields of maritime rights, resources, 
the environment, disaster reduction and scientific research. 
There are four pressing needs for the application of spaceborne-SAR technology 
in Chinese territorial seas: 

(1) Guard territorial integrity and preserve the unity of the country. 
China must guard its territorial integrity and preserve its unity through 
peaceful negotiations and military struggle. Spaceborne SAR can supply ocean 
environment, island and coastal belt data for settling territorial disputes 
between China and its neighbors, especially data unobtainable by shipborne and 
airborne remote sensors that are affected by climatic conditions. Spaceborne SAR 
can supply marine target, environment, landing and counterintelligence 
information for military actions that guard China's territorial integrity and 
keep the homeland intact, guaranteeing naval battlefield initiative and the 
success of military operations. 

(2) The development of marine resources 
China is now in a period of major development of its marine resources. Marine 
environmental information is extremely important to the development of marine 
resources, ocean engineering planning, and on-site operations at sea. 
Bathymetric and bottom profile data are indispensable to shallow-water oil and 
gas prospecting and extraction, laying submarine pipelines and communications 
cables, surface transportation and shipping, ocean fishing and aquaculture. 
Offshore petroleum construction planning demands the fullest understanding local 
ocean waves and internal waves. On-site operations at sea and marine economic 
activities need data on ocean waves and sea-ice conditions. The shallow-water 
depth, topographical, ocean wave, internal wave and sea-ice data obtained by 
spaceborne SAR are directly applicable to the development of marine resources, 
offshore engineering planning and on-site operations. 

(3) Protecting the ocean environment 
The major ocean environmental problem today is pollution. In China, ocean 
pollution is caused mainly by oil and foul water. Offshore oil pollution comes 
from land source run-off, offshore oil-well leaks, and discharge from ships. 
There are over 250 sources of oil pollution along the China coast collectively 
discharging 100,000 tons and more of effluent every year. With the rapid 
development of offshore oil and gas, blowouts and oil discharges flow 
incessantly, and the volume is hard to measure. Tanker accidents are common. 
Some river estuaries and bays are excessively polluted and pose a serious threat 
to the marine ecological environment and biodiversity, directly affecting the 
development of the coastal economy and social well being. The State Oceanic 
Administration (SOA) has two ocean observation aircraft for monitoring overflow 
oil pollution at sea, but rising costs limit the number of sorties and there is 
much they do not see. Spaceborne SAR can provide overflow oil pollution 
monitoring services fast, at high resolution, wide range, full time, and do it 
in all kinds of weather. 

(4) Disaster reduction and prevention 
China suffers major marine disasters that cause billions of yuan in losses per 
year, tens of billions in bad years. As marine industries develop, and offshore 
and coastal belt economic activities increase daily, losses due to marine 
disasters will keep rising. 
Ocean waves are a major marine hazard. About 80 percent of all marine calamities 
are caused by ocean waves. Statistics show that an average of over 2,600 ships 
are sunk and 520 lives are lost annually, the worst case being 1985 when 4,236 
ships capsized and sank, and 1,030 people died. Ocean-wave monitoring and 
forecasting are urgently needed in order to reduce economic losses and loss of 
life due to ocean-wave calamities. Measuring surface-wave fields by spaceborne 
SAR is the effective way to do that. It can deliver three-dimensional ocean-wave 
directional spectrum data for ocean-wave forecasting with greater accuracy and 
timeliness. 
The northern parts of the Bo Hai and Yellow Sea freeze up to some degree every 
winter, and sea ice hampers marine resource development and transportation. 
During 1969, a bad year on the Bo Hai, the Hai-2 oil platform was knocked down 
by ice flows, a piling tension cable of the Hai-1 oil well was severed by ice, 
and 50 or more ships were hampered by ice. This resulted in economic losses 
amounting to several hundred million yuan. Spaceborne SAR can accurately 
delineate the boundaries, types, density and open-water spaces among ice flows 
to help select navigation routes and aid marine operations. Spaceborne-SAR data 
coordinated with surface temperature and weather data can make sea-ice 
forecasting more accurate and greatly reduce sea-ice-created hazards and 
damages. 
3. Suggestions 
R&D of airborne/spaceborne-SAR ocean-imaging mechanisms, ocean applied 
technology and applications begun in the 1980s by units of the SOA, State 
Education Commission, and CAS have broken new ground at home and earned the 
attention of colleagues abroad. A corps of highly-qualified scientists and 
technicians has emerged, rich in experience and highly skilled in spaceborne-SAR 
ocean remote-sensing technology. 
China's remote-sensing satellite ground station began receiving SAR data from 
ERS-1 and JERS-1 satellites in 1994, and Radarsat data was in the works in 1997. 
A lot of SAR imagery has been gathered on China's ocean space. The European 
Space Agency, Japan and Canada, sparing no effort to commercialize SAR data, 
have pushed the sale of SAR products to users throughout the world. The stage 
has thus been set for China's own SAR ocean applications developmental research. 

Considering China's needs for ocean applications, its technological base and 
research conditions, and the developmental trend in international spaceborne SAR 
ocean remote sensing, the following areas of research are suggested for China in 
the near term: 

(1) Basic research on spaceborne-SAR ocean applications: Radar-wave ocean 
surface scatter characteristics research; research on modulation mechanisms of 
ocean processes and Bragg waves; spaceborne-SAR image processing research; and 
spaceborne-SAR ocean image modeling. 

(2) Research on spaceborne-SAR ocean applied technology: Research on ocean wave 
spectrum inversion technology, shallow-water bathymetry and underwater 
topographical mensuration technology, marine surface and underwater dynamics, 
coastal belt survey technology; sea-ice monitoring technology, and sea-surface 
oil pollution monitoring technology. 

(3) Spaceborne-SAR ocean formal applications research: Coastal belt and island 
survey applied technology, sea-ice monitoring applied technology, sea-surface 
oil pollution monitoring applied research, marine dynamic environment applied 
research, and naval military applied research. 
Research described above will raise the level of spaceborne-SAR ocean 
applications and applied technology in China to or near the 1990s international 
advanced level. It will fully prepare the way for a launch of China's own SAR 
satellite and ocean applications. 
