Pakistan: Author identifies prospective targets of US after Iraq

    Now that the US has Comprehensively defeated Saddam Hussein, decimated his 
armed forces and is in complete control of Iraq, the question weighing on many 
minds, particularly in Syria, Iran, North Korea and Pakistan, is "who is next?"  
 Although only President Bush can answer that question, one can take a guess on 
the basis of reasons stated by him for the attack on Iraq.   

    In the case of Iraq he began by talking about the need to change the regime 
on the ground that Saddam Hussein was an evil man who had attacked Iran and used 
chemical gas against his own people, the Kurds.   When the international 
community protested that it would be a violation of the UN charter to interfere 
in another state's internal affairs, he changed the stance and brought in the 
issue of weapons of mass destruction [WMD].   

    Ably assisted by Prime Minister Blair, he alleged that Saddam Hussein was 
conducting a secret WMD programme and possessed huge quantities of chemical and 
nerve agents.   Consequently, he ordered the mobilization of US forces for a 
military action to disarm Saddam.   Once again when the world objected that the 
US couldn't attack Iraq without the UNSC authorization, he reluctantly agreed to 
take the matter to the UN.   In any case the US needed three to four months for 
the deployment of its forces around Iraq.   During this period Bush and Blair 
tried their best to convince the UNSC that Saddam Hussein possessed WMD that 
there was no alternative to the use of force, therefore the UNSC should 
authorize US to disarm Saddam.   The UNSC, however, refused to give the 
authorization without confirmation by the UN inspectors that Saddam possessed 
WMD.   

    As a result President Bush agreed to another round of inspections but 
insisted that it must be finish in three months.   He was hopeful that Hans 
Blix, like the former chief inspector Richard Butler, would also agree to 
willingly cooperate with the US or succumb to the US pressure and give a report 
which would provide justification for military action against Iraq.   But Blix 
did not oblige, and in his last report to the UNSC said that Iraq was fully 
cooperating and asked for a few more weeks to finish the inspection.   He 
expressed the confidence that he would be able to reach a definite conclusion 
whether or not Iraq possessed WMDS, especially if the US and Britain gave him 
accurate intelligence that they claimed they had on these weapons.   

    As this would have disturbed the planned timing of the attack, Bush and 
Blair did not agree to give him more time.   As for intelligence information, it 
is now quite obvious that they had no credible intelligence on Iraqi WMDS, 
otherwise by now more than two hundred thousand US-British troops would have 
found them.   Since giving more time to the inspectors would have interfered 
with the military plans and run the risk of Hans Blix declaring Iraq free of 
WMDS, the US demanded the UNSC to authorize him to disarm Saddam Hussein under 
resolution 1441.   Once again the Security Council rejected the British-US view 
and insisted that the inspectors had to certify Iraq to be in material breach of 
1441 and a second resolution was necessary for the US to take military action 
against Iraq.   

    Once again very reluctantly Bush and Blair submitted a second resolution in 
the hope that they would persuade the six non-permanent members to vote for 
their resolution.   They had planned that so long they could muster nine yes 
votes they would claim moral support of the UN and disregard the French veto.   
Consequently, they launched a blatant campaign of bribery and pressure to win 
the support of the six non-permanent members from Latin America, Africa and 
Asia.   Bush and Blair were greatly surprised and disappointed when these 
countries did not yield.   Hence they decided to withdraw the resolution on the 
pretext that since France had already threatened to use the veto, there was no 
point in seeking a vote.   

    At this point Bush and Blair decided to add another excuse to attack Iraq.   
They claimed that the WMDs held by Saddam posed a threat to British-US security 
therefore, they had to take military action to disarm Saddam Hussein.   When the 
world pointed out that Iraq had no capacity to attack Britain let alone the US, 
they tried to establish a link between Saddam Hussein and Al-Qaida and alleged 
that unless WMDs were removed he would give them to the terrorists.   When the 
world demanded proof of Saddam's links with Al-Qaida, President Bush's reply was 
that where a threat to the US security was concerned, he did not need any 
approval from the UN.   That was the justification to use the Bush doctrine of 
"pre-emption and unilateralism".   

    However, in view of their abject failure to make out a convincing case of 
credible threat, to the US-British security, Bush and Blair were forced to use 
the excuse of liberation of Iraqi people from the brutal and oppressive regime 
of Saddam Hussein.   So the attack on Iraq was named "Operation Iraqi Freedom".  
 As an added measure, Saddam's financial support to the bereaved families of the 
Palestinian suicide bombers was thrown in as an evidence of his support to 
terrorism.   

    Thus in building a case for an attack on Iraq, President Bush and Prime 
Minister Blair used six different reasons 1) change of regime, which they did 
not like, 2) violation of the UN resolutions, 3) possession of WMDs, 4) threat 
to their security 5) support to the terrorists and 6) liberation of people from 
an oppressive regime.   If one was to take a guess about "who is next" based on 
the above, all of the following countries should expect to become a target of 
the US military might and the missionary-cum-financial zeal of the 
neo-conservative Americans so long as Bush remains the President.   

    Cuba: Fidel Castro has been in power for over 40 years; he has never held a 
western style election; he does not tolerate any opposition, he does not believe 
in press freedom, hundreds of thousands of Cubans have escaped to the US and 
many thousands perished in their attempt to flee.   Thus, ably supported by 
Prime Minister Blair, President Bush ought to issue an immediate ultimatum to 
president Castro to resign and go into exile or they would liberate the Cubans 
from his repressive regime.   

    Syria: The US has long blamed Syria of supporting terrorism and now Bush is 
alleging that it has given refuge to the high ups of Saddam regime and possesses 
a chemical weapons programme.   Syria has vehemently denied these allegations 
but that does not matter.   Saddam too had denied having WMDs.   Syrian 
innocence must be proved or disproved only by an invading US-British army, never 
mind the collateral damage to Damascus, the oldest city of the world.   

    Iran: President Bush has already included Iran in his list of the "Axis of 
Evil".   He believes that Iran is the biggest sponsor of terrorism and is also 
working to acquire nuclear weapons, which of course is the cardinal sin that 
Iran will commit as it will pose the gravest possible threat to the US and 
Israeli security.   Furthermore, Iran's oil and gas reserves are only next to 
Iraq in size.   Hence, it makes an extremely fit case for the use of the Bush 
doctrine of pre-emptive strike.   

    North Korea: Another member of the "Axis of Evil", which is authoritarian, 
brutally repressive of its own people, and above all possesses nuclear weapons 
which pose an immediate and clear threat to the US security and that of its 
allies Japan and South Korea.   President Bush therefore must think that unless 
disarmed and its people liberated, he will fail in his duty to the Americans and 
the North Koreans.   

    Pakistan: Though Bush has not included it in his list of the "Axis of Evil" 
and regards it as a serious partner in his war against terrorism, nevertheless, 
according to the neo-conservatives, needs to be taken care of, because it 
possess nuclear weapons, hostile Mullas [Islamic extremists] and supports cross 
border terrorism.   

    India: Though a democracy and is ruled by the right wing Hindu 
fundamentalist party BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party], is under the influence of 
more extremists RSS [Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh] and VHP [Vishwa Hindu 
Parishad], possesses nuclear weapons and is developing ballistic missiles which 
will soon become capable of reaching the US.   Hence it must be seen as a threat 
to the US security and supremacy as the sole super power of the world.   
Therefore, it must be watched closely and disarmed at the first opportunity.   

    Myanmar: It is no secret that this country is under the dictatorial and 
oppressive rule of its military for nearly a decade, that it has blatantly 
nullified the election results, kept the popularly elected leader and a winner 
of the Noble peace prize, Aung San Suu Kyee in prison and under house arrest and 
deprived the people of Myanmar of all political liberty.   There is every 
possibility that if the American and British forces were to invade it, the 
Burmese would garland them in the streets of Rangoon and pray for the long life 
Bush and Blair.   

    Libya: It is another country whose people, according to Bush and Blair, 
deserve to be liberated.   Furthermore, they have long blamed it of being a 
sponsor of terrorism.   It must be on the radar screen of the CIA as a big blip. 
  

    Egypt: If ever President Bush decides to make a case for an attack on Egypt 
he will have no difficulty.   Though it is an ally of the US in war against 
terrorism and a recipient of large annual US grant, Bush can always allege that 
Husni Mubarak has failed to control the terrorists.   Many of the terrorists 
involved in the 9/11 attacks were Egyptians and many more continue to be sworn 
enemies of the US.   Therefore, to protect the Americans he must take 
pre-emptive action against Egypt.   

    Zimbabwe: Prime Minister Blair and his entire cabinet have been waging a 
bitter campaign against the Mugabe regime for a long time.   They accuse him of 
perpetrating most brutal and oppressive measures against his people and for 
blatantly rigging the elections.   Bush and Blair should have no doubt that the 
Dragoons and the Marines will be a welcome sight to the Zimbabweans.   

    But it is not only WMD, liberation, threat to US security etc.   that 
motivates President Bush to wish to thrash a country.   There is another reason 
and it is called "either you are with us or against us".   So, when the UNSC 
refused to fall in line, president Bush condemned it for having failed in its 
duty, and attacked Iraq any way.   Similarly, when France and Germany refused to 
support the US, Rumsfeld dubbed them as "old Europe" meaning outdated, old 
fashioned, senile and not to be taken seriously.   

    The various Bush doctrines, irrespective of the US military might, however 
suffer from two major weaknesses.   One, they are amoral, based on double 
standards and self-interest.   Only those oppressive regimes are to be removed 
which stand in the way of US geo-strategic interests in the region.   If that 
was not the case then President Bush should have liberated the Palestinians and 
not support Israel in its brutal occupation of Palestine for over 33 years in 
blatant disregard of many UN resolutions, above all 242.   

    Similarly, Israel possesses the largest arsenal of WMD outside the US and 
Russia, but continues to be a favourite of the US.   Let alone a military action 
against it, Bush cannot even admonish it for fear of losing his job.   It is for 
this reason of double standards that in spite of the welcome given by the Iraqis 
to the Marines and the Dragoons, the world still considers the US attack on Iraq 
as illegal and amoral and would protest with greater vigour any future attack on 
another country.   

    Two, the second weakness it suffers from is that it can be applied only 
against those countries which have neither nuclear nor people power to resist an 
American invasion.   Hence, despite the perceived threat to its security, the US 
will never attack North Korea because of its nuclear capability and the danger 
it poses to the US troops in South Korea and Japan.   It is for this reason that 
in spite of renunciation of NPT by North Korea president Bush has agreed to 
negotiate with it on its terms rather than resort to ultimatum backed by 
deployment of US troops.   The moral of the story is, do not oppose the US and 
do not be in possession of oil or nuclear weapons.   
