Experts Support Differing US Strategies Toward Members of 'Axis of Evil'

    Introduction

    In his State of the Union Address of late January 2002, US President George 
W. Bush coined the phrase "axis of evil," which has since become a common figure 
of speech. In discussing the need to prevent regimes that sponsor terror from 
threatening the US or its allies with Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD), Bush 
made brief but pointed reference to North Korea, Iran, and Iraq. Bush maintained 
that "states like these, and their terrorist allies, constitute an axis of evil, 
arming to threaten the peace of the world. By seeking weapons of mass 
destruction, these regimes pose a grave and growing danger."

    Not only were the three states grouped together on a so-called axis, but the 
broadly sketched US strategy for responding to the challenge they pose was 
formulated in general, across-the-board terms: "We will work closely with our 
coalition to deny terrorists and their state sponsors the materials, technology, 
and expertise to make and deliver weapons of mass destruction. We will develop 
and deploy effective missile defenses to protect America and our allies from 
sudden attack. . . . The United States of America will not permit the world's 
most dangerous regimes to threaten us with the world's most destructive 
weapons." Significantly, in the National Security Strategy published in 
September 2002, the grounds were laid for taking preemptive action against 
enemies armed with WMD, to prevent them from striking first. Such anticipatory 
action was presented in the document as lawful defense, with "imminent threat" 
adapted to include "the capabilities and threats of today's adversaries."

    In the January 2003 State of the Union Address, there was a very different 
formulation of the problem of WMD threats, as well as the strategy of response. 
First of all, the language of the axis was gone. More importantly, while the 
same three states were named in the context of "outlaw regimes that seek and 
possess nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons," in this address Bush 
maintained unequivocally that "different threats require different strategies." 
Indeed, the text related differently to each of the three states. As to North 
Korea, Bush noted its attempt to blackmail the world with its nuclear program; 
the solution he suggested was to work together with the states of the region to 
find a peaceful solution. Regarding Iran, Bush noted the threat briefly, but 
directly pointed out that Iranians have a right to choose their government and 
determine their destiny, and that the US supports these efforts. For Iraq, a 
lengthy case for war was presented.

    The discussion that follows begins with the point reached by Bush in the 
2003 State of the Union address - namely, "different strategies for different 
threats" - and develops the idea that this is the accurate depiction of US 
approaches toward the so-called "axis of evil" states. Although these states 
presented a broad-based common denominator in terms of their aspirations and 
activities in the realm of WMD development, there were important differences 
among them. Each of these three states in fact posed or continues to pose a very 
different challenge for the US in the context of its overall attempt to deal 
with the implications of WMD in the post-Cold War world.

    In considering how the Bush administration has chosen to deal with these 
newly redefined WMD threats, rather than censuring the US for an unbalanced or 
inconsistent approach, attention should be directed to certain positive aspects 
of the present administration's tendency to recognize and act upon these 
differences, through its focus on inter-state relations.

    Attention to inter-state relations and the need to cultivate them, albeit in 
different ways, can also be the basis for a US reevaluation of the somewhat 
negative approach that it has lately taken towards the arms control regime. 
Rather than marginalize arms control and risk diminishing the value of this 
important regime, the US administration would do well to reemphasize the 
relations-based aspects of these agreements, as opposed to their purely 
weapons-based features. Such an approach would also help underscore the need for 
a regional dialogue on arms control in the Middle East, especially in the 
aftermath of the war in Iraq.

    North Korea, Iran, and Iraq

    The examination of the "axis of evil" countries will highlight differences 
among them in three major respects: the presumed stage of development; each 
state's declaratory position regarding its own program and its attitude toward 
arms control treaties and inspections; and the approach that the US has adopted 
toward each of the three states. The discussion will focus on nuclear weapons, 
as they are the most relevant to recent developments in both North Korea and 
Iran. With regard to Iraq, clearly it was the general WMD profile that was 
targeted by the US, and Iraq's posture of denial evolved largely in relation to 
the chemical and biological weapons Iraq was suspected of possessing and 
developing. Yet for comparative purposes, it is the nuclear realm that is 
highlighted here.

    WMD: Determination and Development

    There are clear indications that all three states have shown determination 
to achieve nuclear capability, although they vary in terms of their presumed 
stage of development.

    An indication of just how advanced North Korea's nuclear program is surfaced 
in October 2002. US Assistant Secretary of State James Kelley confronted North 
Korea with evidence that it was pursuing a uranium-enrichment program, in 
violation of the agreement concluded between the two countries in 1994 following 
North Korea's threat to withdraw from the NPT. North Korea first denied the 
claim, but acknowledged the next day that it had in fact renewed its nuclear 
weapons program. North Korea has demonstrated over the past decade its 
determination to produce nuclear weapons, and current estimates are that its 
uranium enrichment program is only months away from completion. Moreover, 
through its plutonium production program at Yongbyon, North Korea will be able 
to produce a number of nuclear weapons within a few months, if activity 
continues unhindered. Some US officials thought that North Korea already had one 
and perhaps two nuclear bombs, which was lately confirmed by North Korean 
diplomats.

    With regard to Iran, Western intelligence services have argued for quite 
some time that the Iranian nuclear program aspires to achieve nuclear weapons. 
Until recently the focus of international attention was directed mainly to the 
light water nuclear reactor at Bushehr (built with Russian assistance), and 
reflected US concerns that this reactor may be a cover for military activity. 
However, recent revelations, beginning with the Iranian opposition report dated 
August 2002, have shifted attention to additional sites and activities. New 
information touches on the import of uranium gas from China, the mining of 
natural uranium in Iran, progress in mastering the complete fuel cycle, and the 
discovery of two nuclear sites previously unknown to the International Atomic 
Energy Agency (IAEA), at Natanz and Arak. Dr. Mohamed ElBaradei, Director 
General of the IAEA, confirmed during his February 2003 visit to Iran that the 
Natanz site serves as a centrifuge uranium-enrichment plant; the Arak site is 
claimed to be a heavy water plant, which can be used to separate plutonium.

    This information combines to suggest a comprehensive, sophisticated, and 
intensive Iranian nuclear program that is difficult to explain merely as an 
additional potential source of energy, especially since Iran is one of the major 
oil producing states. Taking into consideration its intensive ballistic missile 
program, estimates are that Iran is well on its way to achieving the necessary 
infrastructure to become a nuclear power in the region.

    Iraq's nuclear program suffered a setback as a result of the 1991Gulf War. 
Between the end of the war, when UNSCOM was given the mandate to carry out 
inspections in Iraq, and 1998, when UNSCOM was ordered to leave, Iraq's nuclear 
program was under close scrutiny and inspection. However, between 1998 and 2002 
no inspections took place, leaving the status of the Iraqi nuclear program 
somewhat unclear. US intelligence services argued that Iraq continued to develop 
its program in this period, and the charge was partly the basis for calling upon 
Iraq to readmit inspectors, to declare its WMD programs, and to disarm. A 
portion of the case was based on Iraq's acquisition of aluminum tubes that the 
CIA claimed were intended for building uranium-enrichment gas centrifuges, 
although this argument has been challenged by experts both in the US and abroad.

    The lengthy report submitted by Iraq on December 7, 2002 avowed that there 
was no nuclear program. The IAEA's report submitted by ElBaradei to the Security 
Council on March 7, 2003 concurred with this statement. In that report ElBaradei 
concluded that "there is no indication of resumed nuclear activities in those 
buildings that were identified through the use of satellite imagery as being 
reconstructed or newly erected since 1998, nor any indication of nuclear-related 
prohibited activities at any inspected sites." He added that "there is no 
indication that Iraq has attempted to import aluminum tubes for use in 
centrifuge enrichment."

    Of the three "axis" states, therefore, North Korea is the most advanced, 
followed, according to most recent reports and revelations, by Iran. Estimates 
are that Iraq is presently furthest from such development, although it was 
viewed - certainly under Saddam Hussein - as being highly motivated in this 
regard.

    Positions on Arms Control

    Each of the three states has chosen a different path in its attempt to 
handle and especially to ward off international pressure directed at its WMD 
programs. Until recently, all three were signatories to the NPT. North Korea has 
gone furthest in terms of its direct opposition to this treaty. In 1993 it 
threatened withdrawal from the treaty, but then came to an agreement with the US 
that left its signature intact. In the context of the present crisis, it 
followed through on the threat. In late December North Korea ordered the IAEA 
inspectors to leave, and in January 2003 announced its decision to withdraw from 
the treaty. Significantly, however, it also suggested that there was still room 
for negotiation on the subject of the NPT.

    North Korea prefers direct negotiations with the US as the means to resolve 
the current nuclear crisis and rejects international intervention, although it 
recently indicated its willingness to consider negotiations in a multilateral 
format. What it seeks from the US in return for discontinuing its nuclear 
development project are security assurances and economic assistance.

    Iran has pursued a different route. It has presented itself not only as 
consistently in compliance with its international obligations, but cooperative 
with international agencies as well. Since the early 1990s, Iran has steadily 
maintained a three-pronged message when relating to its nuclear development: 
first, and contrary to North Korea, Iran insists that its nuclear program is for 
peaceful purposes only; this is claimed with regard to Natanz and Arak as well. 
Second, Iran maintains that it is in full compliance with the terms of the NPT, 
and, contrary to Iraq, it welcomes international inspection. In late 2002, after 
initially canceling a planned inspection by the IAEA at the new sites, Iran was 
quick to reschedule this visit for February. Still, Iran has so far avoided 
signing the Additional Protocol to the NPT, which allows surprise inspections at 
declared and undeclared sites, and even during his February visit, ElBaradei 
failed to convince Iran to sign it. However, Iran did agree to negotiate this 
issue further, and stated that in the future it will give notice as to new 
nuclear sites it intends to build. Finally, Iran maintains that if the 
international community is set on identifying nuclear proliferators, it would do 
well to direct its attention away from Iran (a signatory to the NPT, and a state 
that is open to international inspections) and toward Israel, an undeclared 
nuclear power.

    Iran has chosen a unique and sophisticated method of dealing with 
international conventions regarding WMD in general and nuclear capabilities in 
particular. By selectively cooperating with international institutions and 
selectively revealing information, it has so far defeated the effectiveness of 
international controls. Iran has disclosed enough information both to 
demonstrate a positive attitude and to deflect international wrath, but then has 
concealed enough activities to pursue its nuclear program.

    Over the past 12 years Iraq took the path of denial. It consistently denied 
that it possessed weapons or technologies that were in violation of agreements 
it had signed or the terms of resolutions passed against it. Yet numerous 
accounts over the years 1991-1998 in which the inspectors were present in Iraq 
related repeated instances of "cat and mouse" games that Iraq played with the 
inspectors, doing everything in its power to resist cooperation and compliance. 
Saddam Hussein's behavior during the years of inspections created a strong 
impression that he had something to hide (backed up by instances where such 
attempts at concealment were uncovered); but he repeatedly pleaded innocence in 
the face of accusations directed his way. Saddam's record over these years also 
followed a pattern whereby only under the threat of force did he respond to 
international demands for cooperation. This pattern surfaced again in the months 
leading up to the war: while the US engaged in advanced preparations for war, 
Iraq grudgingly complied somewhat with the inspectors.

    US Approaches

    Against this background, the US approaches to the three states can be 
outlined. With regard to Iraq, the US placed major emphasis over the past year 
and a half on what in its view most strongly characterized the Saddam Hussein 
regime: its ongoing record of defiance and deceit. As was made clear in 
Secretary of State Colin Powell's speech to the UN in February 2003, Saddam was 
accused of lying, of deliberately attempting to deceive, and of resisting any 
form of cooperation. The US administration saw Saddam Hussein repeatedly abuse 
the chances he was given to cooperate with the international community. The 
resulting suspicion of Saddam reached such overwhelming proportions that the 
option of cooperating with him was no longer viewed as viable. For the present 
administration, there were no deals to be cut with Saddam. The prospect that the 
US might have to deal down the road with Saddam if he managed to achieve nuclear 
weapons was daunting. It is thus not surprising that the choice was made to 
employ massive force in dealing with Iraq. The case for preemptive action, laid 
out in the National Security Strategy, provides the justification for this 
preemptive strike.

    Regarding Iran, the US officially continues to maintain its state of 
national emergency. It has been active in uncovering information on the Iranian 
nuclear project, and it has pressured Russia to limit cooperation with Iran in 
the nuclear field. At the same time, however, no new steps have been taken 
against Iran since it was assigned to the "axis of evil." In fact, the US has 
had some positive interaction with Iran, concerning the Afghanistan campaign and 
the crisis in Iraq.

    On the basis of the principle embedded in the case for preemptive action 
spelled out in the National Security Strategy, namely "the greater the threat - 
the greater is the risk of inaction," one might have expected to find a harder 
line taken toward Iran; however, this has not been the case. The administration 
has commended the Iranian people for their support for democracy. While US 
officials have expressed great concern regarding the latest nuclear revelations, 
the State Department position reflects an unwillingness to take action against 
Iran:

    We'll continue to look to other governments to cooperate with to prevent 
Iran from going in this direction. It's a matter that we hope the Iranians will 
cooperate with Dr. ElBaradei and his team...and we look forward to seeing his 
report and we'll continue to work with other governments on this matter. 
(February 10, 2003)

    It seems that Iran's basically non-confrontational attitude, together with 
the hopes the US holds for democratic reforms in this country, have engendered a 
policy that at this stage might best be characterized as "hands off." While the 
relative paucity of attention to Iran in recent months must also be viewed in 
the broader context of US preoccupation with Iraq, there are grounds for 
concluding that this less severe attitude has deeper roots in terms of US 
policy. The US will likely take a more active stand on Iran down the road, but 
it will probably be one that favors engaging Iran diplomatically, rather than 
confronting it militarily.

    As to North Korea, the administration was until recently least certain as to 
how to proceed. While most advanced in its nuclear weapons program, North 
Korea's intentions, or what it is trying to achieve through the program, are 
unclear. US officials are divided over the question of whether North Korea views 
such capabilities in the context of its overall security conception, or whether 
nuclear weapons development is viewed primarily as a bargaining chip in the 
context of negotiations with the US. The US is also not sure to what degree it 
has been deceived, namely, whether North Korea was planning all along to cheat 
on its nuclear obligations. While the US can complain that North Korea reneged 
on the 1994 agreement, the US itself did not live up to its commitments either. 
It promised to supply North Korea with two light water reactors, but was way 
behind schedule on delivery. Moreover, North Korea had hoped to achieve 
normalization of relations with the US, but the Bush administration came into 
office with a highly critical attitude, which was later underscored by the 
inclusion of North Korea on the "axis of evil."

    Military action in North Korea is considered problematic on several grounds: 
the conventional threat posed to Seoul and the objections voiced by the 
surrounding regional states that are allies of the US; the fact that North Korea 
might be past the nuclear threshold which could mean a nuclear threat to the US 
and surrounding states such as Japan; and US preoccupation with the war in Iraq. 
Following North Korea's withdrawal from the NPT, the US favored referring the 
issue to the Security Council. It also suggested multilateral negotiations, 
which North Korea rejected until recently. Unlike Iran, North Korea is demanding 
to be dealt with; moreover, it seeks direct negotiations with the US. The US has 
resisted negotiations until North Korea terminates its nuclear weapons program. 
However, initial trilateral talks have recently begun between the US, North 
Korea, and China.

    Assessing the US Policy

    The initial impulse of the Bush administration, as was the tendency of 
previous governments, was to focus on the weapons per se as the basis for 
grouping Iran, Iraq and North Korea as "axis of evil" states. It seems, however, 
that this approach has not been maintained. Interestingly, when surveying how 
nuclear weapons have been dealt with in the past on the global level, it is 
clear that the issue was never solely one of weapons per se. Nuclear states 
committed themselves in the framework of the NPT to reducing their nuclear 
arsenals, but they were not forced to do so. Thus, while an international regime 
was set up to deal with nuclear proliferation on the basis of the weapons 
themselves, i.e. equally across the board, it did not come at the expense of 
implicitly acknowledged differences among nuclear and non-nuclear states This 
was further underscored with regard to India and Pakistan -- which were not 
labeled as rogue states or part of an "axis of evil" -- and is reflected also in 
US attitudes toward Israel.

    In a recent contribution to Foreign Affairs, George Perkovich adopted a 
stance that strongly rejects the NPT on this very basis. He argued that the NPT 
is flawed precisely because it does not religiously adhere to the principle of 
targeting weapons. Accordingly, as long as some states continue to possess 
nuclear weapons legitimately, others will want them. In these terms, "the 
proliferation threat...stems from the existence and possession of nuclear 
weapons...not merely from the intentions of today's 'axis of evil.'" But while 
nuclear weapons cannot realistically be expected to be eradicated from the world 
any time soon, additional nuclear proliferation is nevertheless a serious 
challenge for the short term, and the NPT is severely limited in the face of a 
determined proliferator.

    So, how are potential proliferators to be dealt with? The Bush 
administration has been criticized for adopting a differential approach to the 
different states named on the "axis of evil." Yet complaints against the US for 
adopting a seeming double standard are not particularly useful for dealing more 
effectively with the threats. On the contrary, in light of the limitations of 
the non-proliferation regime, it should be strikingly clear that dealing with a 
proliferator, actual or potential, must take into account the nature of the 
state, its nuclear stage of development, its nuclear intentions, its positions 
on arms control and previous agreements, and its relationship to other states, 
including the US. In its desire to apply the international non-proliferation 
regime to three very worrisome states, the Bush administration has come to the 
realization that it must deal with states and their attitudes, rather than 
solely with their weapons as such. The differences among these states come 
together to make the case for a differential response on the part of the US to 
each.

    Conclusion

    The focus of the Bush administration on inter-state relations as the basis 
for determining policy in the non-conventional realm is not only an outgrowth of 
previous international tendencies, but has evolved over the past year in light 
of stark international realities. Most importantly, it could provide the basis 
for potentially more effective policies that focus not only on WMD, but on 
inter-state relations.

    There is still a question of how the US is likely to proceed after Iraq, 
especially in light of the principles set out in the National Security Strategy. 
Will this strategy create a strong incentive to use preemptive measures against 
additional states, once Iraq is off the agenda? If the US continues to apply 
"different strategies to different threats," there is no reason to assume that 
this will be the case, as evidenced by the example of Iran.

    But where does this leave the National Security Strategy? What then is the 
status of preemption in this document? In this regard, it is crucial to consider 
carefully the wording of both the September 2002 document, as well as the 
"National Strategy to Combat Weapons of Mass Destruction," published in 
December. It is quite clear from these documents that the US is justifying 
recourse to preemptive action, but only when deemed necessary. It is not 
advocating such action in all cases. The September document states most clearly 
that "to forestall or prevent...hostile acts by our adversaries, the United 
States will, if necessary, act preemptively. The United States will not use 
force in all cases to preempt emerging threats" (emphasis added). In the more 
detailed December document, we find that counter-proliferation is only one of 
three pillars of the national strategy to combat WMD; the other two are 
strengthened nonproliferation and consequence management. Furthermore, 
preemption is mentioned as part of one element in the context of the first 
pillar: "Because deterrence may not succeed...US military forces and appropriate 
civilian agencies must have the capability to defend against WMD-armed 
adversaries, including in appropriate cases through preemptive measures."

    Finally, implicit in the overall argument presented here is a policy 
recommendation for the administration, as far as its commitment to arms control. 
The perceived limitations of the non-proliferation regime, due to evidence of 
nuclear proliferation within signatory states, have increased US skepticism 
regarding arms control generally. However, this assessment actually rests on a 
particular understanding of arms control: one that equates arms control with its 
disarmament prong, namely, the attempt to eliminate entire categories of 
weapons. But arms control has an additional most important tradition - that of 
stabilizing the relations among states that possess WMD. It is here that 
inter-state relations play the most significant role. The importance of 
influencing (and hopefully improving) these relationships is a keystone of 
stabilization.

    The Bush administration must take care not to throw out the baby with the 
bathwater, in other words, not to undermine the importance of the arms control 
regime as a whole due to the disillusionment with certain arms control 
agreements. Thus, all possible efforts should be made to improve the 
non-proliferation regime, with particular attention to the accompanying measures 
of verification. Equally as important, however, it should be kept in mind that 
arms control dialogues have a significant role to play in improving inter-state 
relations.

    This final insight has implications for the Middle East. Even following a 
successful war in Iraq that significantly cripples Iraq's WMD developments, 
states will need to pursue arms control and security talks in a regional 
framework. These will necessarily have to include both Iran and Iraq, and they 
will have to be oriented to the needs of the participating states. They will 
have to focus on the easing of tensions, the stabilization of relations, and the 
creation of accepted rules of the game for living with whatever weapons remain 
in the hands of regional states in the interim period, until more comprehensive 
regional arms control agreements can be mutually negotiated and reached.
