India: Columnist notes pressure on Bush, Blair to find WMD's, Saddam Husayn

    More than 11 weeks have passed since the United States-led coalition won the 
Iraq war and removed Saddam Hussein from the seat of power.   However, there is 
still no news of either the deposed Iraqi President or his huge stock of weapons 
of mass destruction (WMDs).   Naturally, there is growing pressure within the 
United States as well as the United Kingdom to find the WMDs, which was cited as 
the main reason for the March 20 attack on Iraq.

    US President George W Bush and British Prime Minister Tony Blair, who led 
the campaign in favour of the attack, argued their case saying that Saddam 
Hussein had WMDs, apart from having links with the Al Qaeda.   On both the 
counts, no concrete evidence has emerged so far.

    The US Congress is getting impatient and is now asking questions about the 
missing WMDs.   Similarly, Mr Tony Blair is defending himself in the British 
Parliament.   The Spanish Prime Minister may have to answer to the Spanish 
Parliament about the missing WMDs.   The issue has already taken a political 
twist and it is a good stick for the critics of these leaders to beat them with.

    Therefore, where are the missing weapons?   Some analysts say that Saddam 
may have hidden them and the coalition soldiers are not looking for these at the 
right places.   The Pentagon has come out with the revelation that the former 
Iraqi dictator may have destroyed some of the weapons before the war.   Defence 
Secretary Donald Rumsfeld went on record at a recent meeting at the Foreign 
Relations Council saying: "It is also possible that the Iraqis decided they 
would destroy them prior to the conflict."   Yet another theory is that they may 
be in Saddam's loyalist-controlled areas of Iraq.   Yet another theory is that 
there might be no WMDs, as was repeatedly claimed by Saddam himself.   The Bush 
Administration, on the other hand, says it may take some time to find the WMDs.

    The Pentagon, which was hyping in favour of war, has offered from $2500 to a 
whopping $250,000 for information leading to the discovery of the missing 
weapons.   Mr Donald Rumsfeld, who presides over the Pentagon, was one of the 
chief architects of the plan.   He is a hard-liner who managed to persuade 
President Bush to attack Iraq.   Vice President Dick Cheney and Mr Rumsfeld 
continue to play a key role, particularly on the foreign policy front, to the 
resentment of the State Department.

    In fact, the Pentagon, which has deployed about 200 US military troops to 
search for the WMDs, has decided to increase it to 300 from this month.   It has 
also announced a change of strategy for search of weapons and says it will now 
concentrate on new information rather than old data.   It is also sending a new 
group of weapons inspectors into Iraq.

    There are about 1,000 sites of which the forces have already combed about 
200.   The troops have searched mosques, homes, factories and government 
ministries among other sites.   Soldiers have found some suspected chemical 
weapon sites but testing has revealed they were used for other purposes.

    What are the types of weapons the troops are looking for?   Remember how 
forceful the US Secretary of State Colin Powell was while arguing at the United 
Nations Security Council, pleading the case against Saddam Hussein?   According 
to US official reports, the Iraqi strongman had 20 to 25 Scud missiles, 550 
artillery shells and a stockpile of 500 tonnes of chemical agents.   This is 
apart from the 6,500 bombs left over from the first Gulf war.   The CIA, 
interestingly, has ordered a review of its own report to investigate its 
accuracy.

    On the political side, the battlelines have already been drawn in Washington 
along party lines.   The 2004 presidential elections are not far away.   The 
lack of evidence of WMDs has opened up fresh attacks on President Bush to the 
nightmare of the White House.   It has given the Democrats the most potent 
ammunition in their bid to unseat the Republican US President in the 2004 
presidential elections, alleging he lied to the nation.   The Democrats suspect 
the Bush Administration had "cooked the books" about the Iraqi WMDs.

    Now two Senate committees want to investigate the reasons for the missing 
weapons while wanting to find out whether the intelligence agencies had 
accurately pointed to the banned weapons.   Senator Graham, a Democratic 
presidential hopeful, is already on record: "If we don't find the weapons of 
mass destruction, it will represent a serious intelligence failure or the 
manipulation of that intelligence to keep the American people in the dark."   So 
it will be the credibility of President Bush and America which will come into 
focus in the coming days.   Anyway, the public also will have to have a credible 
explanation as to why America went to war--if not now, at least before the 2004 
elections.

    While the Democrats have been bashing the White House on this subject, some 
Republican senators too have joined the chorus for a congressional enquiry.   
Several questions are being asked of the Bush team--whether it hyped up the 
danger, or whether the US President lied about the WMDs or whether it was an 
intelligence failure.   The basic point is that without finding the WMDs, the 
credibility of the Bush Administration is in doubt.   The international image of 
the US too is becoming a matter of concern for that country's foreign 
policy-makers.   What is President Bush's answer?   In Poland, he said this 
week: "We found weapons of mass destruction.   We will find more weapons."   The 
question is will they?   Mr Colin Powell, on his part, is sticking to the 
existence of WMDs in Iraq, and during his recent meeting with Pope John Paul, 
who was against the war, had even explained the situation.

    As far as the British Prime Minister is concerned, he is fighting his own 
battle against the opposition charge that he fabricated evidence.   Mr Blair is 
being accused of doctoring the judgements of the intelligence committee.   Even 
his own party did not support him on the war.   Some in his party believe they 
were conned into supporting the war.   Now Mr Blair has to face tougher 
questions directly from British MPs and answer the Parliament.   Unlike 
President Bush, Prime Minister Blair has had to face opposition not only from 
politicians but also from the public and the media.   His troubles will not go 
away until the Americans find the WMDs in Iraq.
