Xinhua: Blair Says Saddam Has WMD Program, Must Be Stopped

    London, Sept. 23 (XINHUA) -- British Prime Minister Tony Blair on Monday 
told his cabinet ministers that there was "no doubt" Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein 
had an ongoing program to build weapons of mass destruction (WMD) and that must 
be stopped.   

    Blair also told the ministers that the policy of "containing" Saddam Hussein 
has failed as he held talks with his cabinet ahead of Tuesday's emergency recall 
of Parliament, Downing Street said.   

    In the two-hour cabinet session, the prime minister briefed the ministers 
about the dossier of evidence against Iraq which will be unveiled on Tuesday 
morning.   

    Blair said the government's 55-page dossier on Iraq would show the "real and 
serious problem" of its weapons programs had got worse since UN inspectors left 
the country in 1998.   

    "There is no doubt whatever...that Saddam is continuing with his WMD 
program.   We are not talking about historic leftovers but an ongoing, 
continuing program," Blair was quoted as saying.

    The dossier will "nail the lie that they (Iraq) have no weapons of mass 
destruction," a Downing Street spokesman said.   

    "The prime minister said the issue of Iraq and weapons of mass destruction 
is real, serious and the problem has grown worse in four years without 
inspections," said the spokesman.   

    But he added that plans for a war with Iraq were not being discussed in the 
cabinet meeting.   

    Blair also told his colleagues that it was right to deal with Baghdad 
through the auspices of the United Nations but added that inaction was not an 
option.

    Before the cabinet meeting, some ministers have publicly expressed concern 
about possible military action.

    But Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said the cabinet was clear about the need 
to be "resolute and firm" on dealing with Iraq.   

    In seeking a "peaceful resolution" of the threat posed by Iraq, the 
international community had to give Saddam Hussein a "clear choice", Straw told 
reporters after the cabinet meeting.   

    Iraq should know the consequences of failing to disarm, he added.   

    Also on Monday, Downing Street said a draft United Nations resolution will 
be tabled "within days" to set out what Iraq needs to do to comply with 
international weapons inspections.   

    Blair's official spokesman said Saddam Hussein must not be allowed to 
exploit diplomatic maneuvering within the UN to block the demands to disarm.   
