Nigeria: Editorial sees war on Iraq as cowardice, diversion from Enron, oil grab

Nearly six months ago, precisely in its August 3, 2002 edition, The Economist 
made what looked like an unassailable case for war against Iraq. The world 
(meaning the Anglo-Americans) must wage war against Saddam Hussein's Iraq, the 
paper said, because Hussein is aggressive, cruel, and reckless and if he is not 
quickly taken out, his country's oil wealth and advanced technology "could very 
soon give (him) an atomic bomb." 

"Perhaps the best hope (of avoiding war)," the paper continued, "is that, as the 
noose tightens, Mr. Hussein will save himself by letting the inspectors return. 
If they do so on a credible go-anywhere, check-anything basis, such an 
opportunity would be worth grabbing, at least to see if it worked." 

Late last year, Hussein, against all odds, did exactly what The Economist 
predicted. In actual fact he did more. Not only did he allow the UN inspectors 
back on a go-anywhere, check-anything basis, in December he invited his 
arch-enemy, the American CIA, to come over and search every inch of Iraqi 
territory for the so-called weapons of mass destruction (WMD) it allegedly 
possessed. "Iraq hits back with CIA offer," screamed The Guardian of London with 
a lead story in its December 23, 2002 edition. (In that story, the paper, little 
to any informed observers surprise, revealed that British government officials 
had been privately admitting that they did not have any strong evidence that 
Iraq possessed any WMD). 

How did the Anglo-Americans respond to the Iraqi offer? You guessed right-they 
pooh-poohed it. Thanks, but no thanks, they said. The offer is mere propaganda. 
What we need is "pro-active cooperation", whatever that meant. 

And so it is that in spite of everything the Iraqis have done to prove to the 
world that the Anglo-Americans are lying about their allegations of Iraqi 
possession of WMD, the Anglo-Americans have intensified their preparations to 
destroy Iraq and forcibly occupy the Gulf region. 

Boris Johnson, a member of British Parliament and the editor of the right wing 
Spectator magazine writing in the thoroughly right wing, London Daily Telegraph, 
best summarized the hollowness of the Anglo-Americans case against Saddam. 
"Saddam must go," he said writing in the Daily Telegraph of December 26, 2002, 
"but don't lie to me about the reasons." 

The reasons that the Anglo-American have given so far for relentlessly pursuing 
Saddam, he said, are "cynical and ludicrous attempt at Pavlovian conditioning. 
War in Iraq! Terrorist threat! War in Iraq! Terrorist threat! On it will go 
until the poor mutton-headed public believes that only the first will obviate 
the threat of the second. It is a belief for which, alas, there is no evidence 
whatever." 

Try as he may, Tony Blair, said the Spectator editor, has not been able to link 
Saddam with September 11. The Anglo-Americans, he said, have also not been able 
to find any WMD. "This week" continued the editor, "(Hans) Blix (the UN Chief 
inspector of Iraq's alleged WMD) and Co continued their Cook's tour of the 
Mesopotamian Rustbelt, sniffing around a milk factory that had already been 
blown up twice by the allied forces, in 1991 and 1998. They confirmed that, as a 
producer of milk, the factory was pretty washed up. They did not, it seems, find 
any weapons of mass destruction." 

Mr. Johnson then concluded his somewhat sarcastic piece by saying that there may 
indeed be good reasons for ridding the world of Saddam, but the "tiresome 
pretexts about terrorism and weapons of mass destruction," are not part of such 
reasons. 

Anyone looking for evidence that the Anglo-Americans have lied through their 
teeth about Iraqi possession of WMD, should read a little book titled War on 
Iraq by William River Pitt, in which the author had an extensive interview with 
Scott Ritter, former UN weapons inspector in Iraq. Ritter, a former U.S. Marine 
intelligence officer, spent seven years chasing Iraq's alleged WMD. By his own 
admission, he is a thoroughbred conservative who voted for George W. Bush in the 
last election. He is, he says, also "very pro-Israel." 

Pitt's book traces the very interesting relationship between the Americans and 
Saddam. Back in 1975, the Americans encouraged the Iraqis to cede the 
Shat-al-Arab waterway vital to navigation in the region and one of the causes of 
the Iran-Iraq war, to Iran. The country was then under the Shah, who everyone 
knew was America's puppet. The Americans changed tack in 1979 when their man was 
overthrown. It now instigated Iraq to wrest back the water-way and thus helped 
start the war with Iran which lasted nearly 10 years. During the course of the 
war in 1982, President Reagan removed Iraq from America's list of nations 
sponsoring terrorism. 

In 1988 after the war ended, the Iraqis thought the policy of oil dumping by its 
neighbors (Saudi Arabia, Kuwait etc), which America encouraged, was frustrating 
its post-war reconstruction plan. In 1990, the Iraqis specifically accused 
Kuwait of slant drilling for oil into Iraqi territory and subsequently invaded 
it, some say not without a cynical American complicity, in August of that year. 

The rest, as they say, is history. The Iraqis, who were America's pals of 
yesterday, suddenly became its No 1 enemy. Under the pretext of punishing Iraqi 
aggression against Kuwait, Bush Senior led an allied invasion of Iraq but 
stopped short of removing Saddam. Part of the price Iraq was to pay for losing 
the war was to rid itself of its so-called weapons of mass destruction. 

The fact, says Ritter in his extensive interview with Pitt in our little book, 
is that Iraq had indeed been deprived of whatever weapons of mass destruction it 
may have possessed. Not only does Iraq no longer possess any WMD, says Ritter, 
the country does not even have the system to deliver them beyond its region, 
which means Iraq does not pose any military threat to the U.S. 

According to Ritter, the UN inspection of Iraq proved conclusively that Iraqi's 
chemical, biological and nuclear capabilities were effectively destroyed during 
and in the years after the Gulf war. 

"Nuclear weapons", he pointed out, "cannot be created in a basement or cave. 
They require massive amount of electricity and highly controlled technologies 
not readily available on the open market". As for chemical weapons, said Ritter, 
even if Iraq had managed to hide them, the weapons would have become useless by 
now, because of their relatively short shelf life. "All this talk about Iraq 
having chemical weapons" he said, "is no longer valid." 

To prove his point he has repeatedly challenged one Khidir Hamza, an Iraqi 
defector, who claims to be Saddam's bomb-maker, to a debate. He has also 
challenged his former boss at UN inspection, Australian diplomat Richard Butler, 
who has often peddled America's line on WMD, to a similar debate. Both Hamza and 
Butler have so far refused to pick up the challenge. 

"I have," he said, "challenged Richard Butler to a debate in front of a camera 
and a live audience. He won't do it. He's avoiding the kind of debate he should 
be encouraging." 

All the talk about Iraqi possession of WMD, says Ritter, is mere propaganda 
peddled by a trio of Donald Rumsfeld, the American Defense Secretary, Paul 
Wolfowitz, his deputy, and Richard Pearl, one of Bush's advisers. 

"Donald Rumsfeld was politically dead," said Ritter. "No one thought of Donald 
Rumsfeld as having any potential. Paul Wolfowitz was seen as a raving lunatic of 
the far right. Richard Peale is not called 'The Prince of Darkness' without 
cause. Those are three people who seemed destined to spend the rest of their 
lives snipping from the fringes as they'd done for the previous decade. And now 
suddenly, they are running the show." 

Needless to say, Ritter's dissention from the establishment position has earned 
him its enmity. Three times he has been investigated by the CIA and the FBI for 
possibly compromising his country's security but so far he has not been found 
guilty. Similarly, all attempts to give him a bad press have failed. "All the 
reporters who have covered me," he said, "come back saying the same thing: they 
cannot prove me wrong on a point of fact. When I say something occurred it 
occurred exactly the way I said." 

Since the Anglo-Americans persist in waging war on Iraq in spite of their 
inability to prove their allegations of Saddam's link to so-called international 
terrorism and his possession of WMD, the real reasons for their aggression must 
lie elsewhere.

Elsewhere obviously includes oil. Next to Saudi Arabia, Iraq reportedly has the 
largest oil reserve in the world. The alleged involvement of so many Saudi 
nationals in September 11, shows the days of Americas extra-ordinarily cozy 
relationship with the Saudi monarchy are over. Grabbing Iraqi oil, could serve 
as an insurance against the probable collapse of the Saudi oligarchs. Of course, 
the Americans could also grab the Saudi oil, but that would prove more difficult 
because they would need to demonize the Saudi oligarchs like they have done 
Saddam. But then even the most effective propaganda takes time to sink in. 

Ritter does not think Iraqi oil is the chief consideration in the Anglo-American 
aggression against Iraq. "We can get all the oil we want from Iraq," he says. 
"The Iraqi oil minister has made it clear that, once the sanctions are lifted, 
Iraq will do whatever they can, to ensure the strategic energy requirements of 
the United States are met." 
I am not so sure that Bush will be happy to rely on the word of any Iraqi oil 
minister. Even if he is, surely the action of gun-boat diplomacy speaks louder 
than the word of any minister. 

And so it is that Bush, who is an oil man, his vice president, Dick Cheney who 
is also an oil man, and Bushe's security adviser, Condolesa Rice, who is an oil 
lady, would move full steam ahead to invade oil-rich Iraq, no matter what the 
rest of the world thinks. That is, if they have not done so by the time you are 
reading this piece, to ultimately prove to the world that the Anglo-American war 
on Iraq is nothing but a display of cowardice after all. Even the less 
politically minded person will understand what United States of America is 
looking for. Brave men give cogent reasons for their actions while cowards and 
braggarts whip sentiments to attract sympathy from mediocre and the unlearned 
population in any part of the globe. 

However, important as oil is as a factor in the Anglo-American aggression 
against Iraq, it is possibly not the most important consideration, at least in 
the short run. The reader who has watched the hilarious comedy, Wag the Dog, 
starring Dustin Hoffman and Robert De Niro, should be able to identify a second 
and possibly more important reason for the war on Iraq. 

"When the President of the United States is caught in a scandal just two weeks 
before the election" says the blurb of the movie, "it is up to his White House 
adviser, Ronnie Brean (De Niro) to clean up the mess. Ronnie joins forces with 
Hollywood Producer, Stan Moss (Hoffman) to divert the country's attention from 
the president's crime. They decide that what is needed to stop the media 
spotlight is a war, but lacking a real war, they fake one." 

Facts, they say, can be stranger than fiction. The similarities between Wag the 
Dog and Gulf War III starring Bush Jr, Rumsfeld, and Co. make the latter look 
even stranger than the former. And I am hardly alone in thinking this way. I am 
at least in the good company of one Professor Robert Alford of the City 
University of New York Graduate Center. Robert Fisk, a British journalist 
writing in the London Independent of December 23, 2002, quotes a research by the 
professor, which seems to link the Enron scandal with the Iraqi war. Bush and 
Cheney, as we all know, have been seriously implicated in the scandal, as 
individuals with huge interests in the energy business. 

When the Enron scandal first broke in January 2002, Professor Alford discovered 
from his survey of the New York Times, the Washington Post and the Los Angeles 
Times, the story received 1,137 mentions in those newspapers. At that time Iraq 
got only 200 mentions. By Spring the Iraqi story grew almost 100%. Enron 
declined by 50%. By early summer, Iraq had received 1,529 mentions. In sharp 
contrast, Enron had received only 310. 

"Remarkable, isn't it," asked Fisk, "how you can clear a messy economic scandal 
off the front pages by renaming your hate figure.... Of course, it is also a 
good idea to change hate figures when your closest ally, Israel, is in danger of 
producing one in the form of Ariel Sharon."

There are people who will argue that Fisk's conclusions, which I share, are 
far-fetched. They will argue that Saddam is truly a monstrous character that the 
Iraqis and the rest of the world would be happy to be rid of. 

Perhaps Saddam is indeed truly a monster. But then as Pitt the author of our 
little book, War on Iraq, says, the Iraqi leader, "is our monster," meaning 
Saddam was a monster created by the Americans. "He is", says Pitt, "as much an 
American creation as Coca-Cola and the Oldsmobile". 

As the Anglo-Americans prepare to wage war on Iraq, it seems they have hardly 
learnt the lesson that monsters like Saddam are the inevitable consequences of 
gun-boat diplomacy. 
