Iraq Affairs Expert: Saddam Amassed $3 Billion for WMD, Military

    Iraqi President Saddam Hussein is said to have amassed a treasure chest of 
up to $3 billion a year since UN sanctions were imposed in the early 1990s to 
maintain and develop an arsenal of weapons of mass destruction.

    Amatzia Baram, regarded as a leading expert on Iraq and a consultant to 
several governments, said Saddam has sufficient funds to ensure his WMD arsenal. 
Baram, a professor at Haifa University, said Saddam has obtained funding from 
the smuggling of Iraqi oil through Jordan, Turkey and Syria.

    Saddam has acquired around $1 billion from the sale of smuggled oil, Baram 
said. Additional revenues are obtained through Iraq's surcharge on oil sold 
through United Nations auspicies.

    All told, Baram said, this amounts to between $2.5 billion and $3 billion 
per year for Saddam's coffers. The Israeli expert said the Iraqi president does 
not have to use any of this money for the needs of his nation.

    "This is a tremendous amount of money," Baram said. "Saddam doesn't have to 
invest one penny in Iraq. All this comes from the cash register in the UN."

    Baram said the UN oil-for-food program essentially manages the import of all 
humanitarian aid for Iraq. The UN said 1,135 humanitarian supply contracts, 
worth about $2.1 billion, cannot be processed because of a shortfall in Iraqi 
revenue. The UN has already approved the contracts.

    "Almost all the sectors of the program continue to be affected by this 
shortfall in funds to some degree," a UN statement said.

    Baram said Saddam has exploited the shortfall in funds for humanitarian 
programs to conduct starvation policies in Shi'ite areas in the south. He said 
the area of Amara sustains the worst conditions, with hunger and a collapsing 
infrastructure.

    Saddam's current revenues are far less than what he earned on the eve of the 
1991 Gulf war. Baram said that at the time Saddam had at least $10 billion in 
revenues.

    "What Saddam doesn't have is enough money needed to bribe Russians to sell 
him nuclear weapons or material," Baram said. "He also doesn't have enough money 
to buy 700 tanks or 100 aircraft."

    Baram said Saddam has struck deals with Iraq's neighbors for the smuggling 
of oil, military spare parts and WMD components. He said Syria obtains 20 
percent of its $5 billion in hard currency from the smuggling of Iraqi oil.

    "The Syrians use the Iraqi oil for their domestic needs and sell their own 
oil on the foreign market," Baram said. "This way, they can tell the United 
States that they aren't violating UN sanctions."
