Philippine Daily: 'Unease' Lingers Over WMD, Saddam's Fate at End of Iraq War

    The boys and girls of the mightiest army in the world are homeward bound, 
and the people of Iraq are on their way to setting up their own government. Only 
two factors are spoiling George W. Bush's victory parade. One: Saddam Hussein 
remains unaccounted for. Two: those weapons of mass destruction (WMD) simply 
refuse to be found.

    The top Iraqi officials who have surrendered or been arrested have so far 
failed to lead coalition forces to Saddam or his remains. The officials also 
continue to insist that there are no weapons of mass destruction in their 
country. Lest anyone has forgotten, the supposed presence of those WMD--not the 
liberation of Iraqis from Saddam--was the reason for this war, and the reason 
the coalition brushed aside the objections of the United Nations Security 
Council.

    Despite such setbacks, the US president is happy enough with the outcome of 
the war. Those who supported the coalition, including the Philippines, are also 
happy to see the Iraqis enjoying enough freedom to march in the streets, 
demanding that coalition forces leave their land. The success of the military 
campaign has so emboldened Bush that in his speech yesterday declaring major 
combat in Iraq over, he vowed to continue confronting rogue states that support 
terrorism. The world can also expect more manifestations of his unprecedented 
doctrine of pre-emptive strike. "We will continue to hunt down the enemy before 
he can strike," he vowed.

    America promised the world a brief, decisive strike. Three weeks to invade a 
sovereign state and topple a regime was certainly short enough. America promised 
that the coalition would liberate Iraqis from a cruel regime. In this the 
coalition also delivered.

    And yet unease lingers--over the absence of Saddam and the WMD, over the 
sidelining of the UN, over pre-emptive strikes, and over which regime is next in 
America's line of fire. Whether or not democracy takes root in Iraq remains to 
be seen. How far are the Americans and British willing to go to achieve that 
aim? Of greater concern to other authoritarian Arab regimes, several of which 
supported the strike against Saddam: Will the coalition stop at Iraq?

    Only time will tell if the world has become safer with Saddam taken out. For 
now there is relief as coalition forces head home and the difficult task of 
rebuilding Iraq gets underway.
