UK Defense Minister Travels to US; New Dossier on Saddam's WMD Published

     Iraq is a threat to peace and stability in the entire Western world and the 
United States and Britain must not face the might of Saddam Hussein alone, Geoff 
Hoon, the Defence Secretary, will tell an American audience today. 

    Underlining a personal conviction that military action is probably 
unavoidable, Mr. Hoon will back Tony Blair's commitment of British troops to 
another war with Iraq if Saddam refuses to adhere to existing United Nations 
resolutions and allow his weapons of mass destruction to be eliminated by UN 
inspectors. 

    Mr. Hoon denied that a new UN resolution would be necessary before any 
attack on Saddam's regime. But just as President Bush built up a united 
coalition on the war against terrorism before launching airstrikes on 
Afghanistan, Mr. Hoon will urge America to pursue all the diplomatic avenues 
before issuing an ultimatum to Iraq. 

    Mr. Hoon, who flew to America yesterday, is due to meet Donald Rumsfeld, the 
US Defence Secretary, on Wednesday and Dick Cheney, the US Vice-President, the 
following day. He is expected to discuss in broad outline what level of military 
contribution Britain might be able to provide if all diplomatic efforts fail and 
President Bush decides to resort to force. 

    Although he has not travelled to America with any of his military advisers, 
Mr. Hoon's party includes Desmond Bowen, a top Ministry of Defence civil servant 
who is Director-General of Operational Policy. 

    Later today, in a speech at the University of Louisville, the Defence 
Secretary will underline his support for the hawkish approach adopted by Tony 
Blair, but which is not shared by every member of the Cabinet. He will say: "The 
United States should not have to face it alone. It is in the interests of the 
rest of the world, of the whole international community. That is why we are 
standing beside the United States in addressing this issue. It is the right 
thing to do." 

    He will tell his American audience: "I hope that other nations will join 
this international effort. We cannot ignore the problem." 

    Hinting at the main conclusions of the Whitehall dossier on the Iraqi 
President, which is expected to be published in a few weeks, Mr. Hoon will say: 
"Saddam Hussein is continuing in his efforts to develop weapons of mass 
destruction, in breach of several UN resolutions. He will do all he can to 
acquire these weapons. History shows that Saddam Hussein will not hesitate to 
use weapons of mass destruction - he has previously used them to kill thousands 
of his own people." 

    The threat has to be confronted, the Defence Secretary will say, but he will 
emphasise that every diplomatic move should be made first before turning to 
force. "Just like the international community's response to the events of 
September 11, diplomacy should and must come first. 

    Military action, if needed, should follow diplomacy, he will say. 

    President Bush is following the same procedure he adopted against the 
Taliban, Mr. Hoon will say. Instead of "rushing to launch cruise missile strikes 
against al-Qa'ida and the Taliban", he remained patient and built up an 
international coalition before issuing the Taliban with an ultimatum - "giving 
time for them to hand over Usama Bin Ladin and other wanted suspects". Only when 
the Taliban "showed no signs of meeting the terms of the ultimatum was military 
action undertaken". 

    Resorting to the United Nations to get another resolution, however, was not 
absolutely necessary, Mr. Hoon said before flying to America. "It is perfectly 
possible to take action under international law without a specific UN 
resolution. It was done in the Balkans and Afghanistan. Whatever we do will be 
consistent with international law." 

    Mr. Hoon said that Iraq was already in breach of 23 of 27 UN resolutions. 
"If we are not careful another resolution will just add to the pile of paperwork 
in New York," he said in an interview. 

    Also today a special dossier on Saddam's weapons of mass destruction will be 
published by the London-based International Institute for Strategic Studies. 
Based on information gleaned from around the world, it relies for much of its 
evidence and analysis on former UN weapons inspectors, who gained a unique 
insight into Saddam's clandestine programme. 

    Mr. Blair was sent a copy of the report prior to its publication and read it 
on the plane on his Washington trip. 

    The dossier will include an assessment of the progress Saddam is believed to 
have made in extending the range of his Scud ballistic missiles. Under a United 
Nations agreement, Saddam is only allowed to develop missiles with a maximum 
range of 150 kilometres for defensive purposes, but there is now a firm 
conviction that Iraq has been boosting its efforts to produce a longer-range 
weapon, possibly with the help of North Korea. 

    This could match the efforts that are also under way in neighbouring Iran, 
which tested a new surface-to-surface missile, the Fateh 110A, last week. That 
missile is believed to have a range of about 300 kilometres. 

    Doug Richardson, the Editor of Jane's Missiles and Rockets, said that the 
Fateh 11A appeared to be modelled on the Chinese DF11A, which was a new, more 
accurate missile that is guided to its target by the satellite-linked Global 
Positioning System. The Chinese missile can be fitted with a nuclear warhead.

