Former UN Inspector Says Hussein Kamel's Evidence for Iraqi WMD Weak, Misleading

     Hussein Kamel, the former head of Iraq's weapons programmes whose 1995 
defection has been portrayed by the US and Britain as evidence of Iraqi deceit 
and the futility of inspections, was a "consummate liar", according to the last 
weapons inspector to interrogate him.

    The transcript of the interrogation, leaked this week to Newsweek magazine 
and seen by the Guardian, makes it clear that the defector's testimony on Iraqi 
weapons of mass destruction was inconclusive and often misleading. 

    The emergence of the classified statements weakens the case the US and 
Britain has tried to build against Saddam Husayn, in which Kamel's defection has 
been used to bolster claims that Iraq still has thousands of tonnes of chemical 
and biological weapons for which it has not accounted. 

    They reveal that Kamel, who was President Saddam's son-in-law, told UN 
inspectors that Iraq had destroyed all its chemical and biological weapons and 
abandoned its nuclear programme after the Gulf war. But he said blueprints, 
documents, computer files and moulds for missile parts had been hidden. 

    Rolf Ekeus, the former chief UN weapons inspector who oversaw the 
interrogation in August 1995, said much of the chemical arsenal had been 
destroyed by the inspectors, not Baghdad. 

    Mr. Ekeus agreed that the Iraqi government had probably eliminated its 
biological arsenal but said he remained convinced that "seed stocks" of bacteria 
had been retained as well as growth media and fermenters so it could quickly 
reconstitute its arsenal. 

    Kamel, who had been the director of Iraq's military industrial 
establishment, was assassinated soon after his mysterious decision to return to 
Iraq just weeks after his high-profile defection. 

    The US and British governments have pointed to the defection to emphasise 
the extent of Iraq's weapons programmes and the inherent weakness of 
inspections. 

    But Mr. Ekeus pointed out that UNSCOM, the UN special commission on Iraq, 
had already discovered a lot about the Iraqi pre-war biological programme 
earlier that year, forcing Baghdad's admission in July, a month before Kamel's 
defection, that it had pursued germ warfare. 

    The transcript of Kamel's interrogation reveals a far more ambiguous picture 
than the one portrayed in Washington and London. 

    "Kamel was a consummate liar," Mr. Ekeus said. 

    While the transcript of the interrogation makes it clear that the defection 
was less than a breakthrough, it had a psychological impact on Baghdad. The 
Iraqi government, unsure what he was going to tell the inspectors, became much 
more forthcoming. 

    Before Mr. Ekeus arrived in Amman to interrogate Kamel, the Iraqis invited 
him to Baghdad to hand over documents and then took him to Kamel's chicken farm 
where several metal containers full of documents had been buried. 

    "They wanted to blame it all on Kamel," Mr. Ekeus said. "But Kamel was just 
carrying out the government's policy."

