Indian author views reasons behind US campaign against Saddam

    India's leftists say it's about oil. The VHP [Vishwa Hindu Parishad--World 
Hindu Council] say it's about the clash of civilisations. Everyone sees the US 
campaign against Saddam Hussein through their own prism. It's true oil has a 
role. So does Islam. And WMD [Weapons of Mass Destruction] and terrorism. When 
the US decides to let slip its dogs of war, it does so for multiple reasons, for 
such decisions require multiple interests to feel they have a stake.

    Before 9/11, only two groups in the US security establishment were gunning 
for Hussein. One group was a traditional, 'we-need-petrol' school of thought. 
Under a policy going back to the Fifties, Washington took it for granted that 
any country in a position to disrupt the flow of oil through the Straits of 
Hormuz was a security threat. Invoking this principle, Bill Clinton embedded 
regime change into his Iraq policy. His reason: a nuclear-empowered Iraq could 
tip the balance of power in the Persian Gulf against the US forever. But this 
school was satisfied with sanctions and fomenting coups if it couldn't get war.

    The other group was a Republican lobby that argued the biggest threat facing 
the US was a future convergence of two trends: WMD proliferation and a new breed 
of terrorists willing to use such weapons. They argued that the US had to 
respond with a radically different security strategy: missile defence, 
pre-emption and rogue State eradication. Of the last, Hussein's Iraq was seen as 
the most obvious target. Pentagon chief Donald Rumsfeld and Vice-President Dick 
Cheney are graduates of this school.

    The newly-elected George W. Bush ignored Hussein. He wanted a second term 
and a risky overseas mess was a no-no. The CIA and State Department argued Iraq 
was a nuisance, not a crisis. The oil industry went further: they wanted 
sanctions against Hussein lifted. His national security advisor, Condoleezza 
Rice, wrote it didn't matter whether Hussein got nukes or not. In other words, 
Bush's Iraq policy was initially softer than Clinton's.

    Then 9/11 happened. Rumsfeld and Co. argued that Iraq needed to go down 
along with Afghanistan. Powell, the CIA and Bush gave them a thumbs down. But by 
the time the Taliban were history, Washington had sketched out a blueprint for a 
multi-front war on terrorism. Once the battle plan was laid out, it was realised 
that Rumsfeld's thinking was right. Many of the warpaths against terrorism ended 
with an X on Hussein's face--but for wildly different reasons.

    The first and most important front in the war on terror evolved from the 
WMD-terror convergence theory. Al-Qaeda literature found in Kabul, Pakistani 
physicists hobnobbing with Osama bin Laden and a flood of other intelligence 
made it clear terrorists were desperate to get WMD capability. The big, hairy 
fear of the US today is that the next 9/11 will be done with anthrax or 
plutonium, not jet fuel.

    This is forcing the tectonic shift in US strategic thinking. Stopping a 
terrorist plan that is already unfolding is nearly impossible. So the US has 
shifted its sights further down the chain of causality. Go after insecure 
sources of WMD, knock out States that fail certain indices of international 
behaviour, target banks that play crooked and so on.

    The shortlist of nations who declined to change their ways became the 'axis 
of evil'. Iraq was deemed danger No. 1. It was judged the most likely place for 
terrorists to get WMD. It was also felt a message had to be sent to such 
countries. Toppling Hussein would do just fine.

    The second front was about the long-term eradication of the root causes of 
Al-Qaeda-type terrorism. All the terrorist-wallahs [pro-terrorist elements] and 
Arabists, the Bush administration tapped said the same thing: the reason 
educated Arabs sign up with bin Laden is a lack of democracy in their homelands. 
The antidote: open up the Arab world.

    Two professors, Fouad Ajami and Bernard Lewis, are the gurus of this belief. 
Their acolytes include Cheney and Rice. Completely overhauling the Arab world is 
a task roughly comparable to knocking the Soviet bloc, so the White House has 
preferred not to blow the trumpet on this. Instead, lesser officials like the 
State Department's policy planning chief, Richard Haass, and Rice's deputy, 
Stephen Hadley, have served as mouthpieces. The second front warriors are 
pushing for the occupation of Iraq as they need a model Arab democracy. Iraqis 
are secular and are expected to welcome ballot boxes after decades of 
dictatorship. It also has enough oil to pay for its own revival.

    Arab thinkers and Washington insiders say that another reason is that the US 
needs a lot of surplus petroleum handy for a showdown with the unrepentant 
cashbox of jehad: Saudi Arabia. Another derivative: the next secular Arab 
democracy the US wants is Palestine. The Israelis have already been put on 
notice.

    Hussein must feel befuddled. Before 9/11 everyone from Exxon to the Elysee 
Palace was plugging for him. Then it all went bad. He became a target of a new, 
preventive strategic doctrine straight out of Minority Report and a plan to 
transform the Arab world so radical no one quite believes it.

    This represents an enormous shift in mindset for an America-first White 
House that wanted even a token US troop presence in Macedonia withdrawn. Bush 
does not seem really bothered to explain all this to his own people. Instead, he 
has resuscitated genuine, but hoary, Iraqi violations of UN resolutions that all 
assumed were no longer worth a fight. No wonder half the world thinks the US 
response is exaggerated.

    Bush is taking on an enormous task and even greater risk. Toppling Hussein 
pales in comparison to the decision to modernise Islam. As Hadley said in a 
speech, "This is an awesome responsibility. When future scholars look back on 
the history of the Middle East in the early part of the 21st century, I hope 
that they don't ask 'what went wrong?' but instead ask 'Why did it go right?' "
