Chechen `Volcano' To Continue Smoldering

Who has a greater desire today to stop the war in 
Chechnya than the officers and men dying there and their wives, mothers, and 
children? Since the Russian authorities long ago stopped taking the people's 
interests into account, it would also be naive to think that Lebed's attempts to 
act as peacemaker were aimed at saving the lives of Russian guys. But you get 
the impression that Lebed has been set the task of ending the war at all costs. 
Yes, even at the cost of thousands of pointless casualties, at the cost of 
Russia's integrity too. Just as long as it is stopped immediately!
Yeltsin tried to do precisely the same thing before the election, by sitting 
down at the negotiating table with Yandarbiyev. Now that he - the man who 
unleashed and provoked the slaughter - has turned his back on day-to-day 
affairs, that he is seemingly indifferent whether this vital part of Russia is 
wrested away or not, the entire initiative in peacemaking has fallen to the 
Security Council secretary. The only thing that the president has done to this 
end is to give him superpowers. For what reason? For whom?
Let us not forget that the presidential election is approaching in the United 
States. American voters are perfectly well aware of the services their President 
rendered ours during his election. In November they will be entitled to ask: Who 
is it, Clinton, that you dragged to power so desperately, contrary to the rules 
of democracy? In short: "Tell me who your friend is".... What can "friend Bill" 
tell them? That he backed a tyrant who is killing his own people and who is to 
blame for the bloodshed? After all, the Americans are profoundly indifferent to 
the problems of Russia's integrity, what is important to them is to have 
guarantees that their President is a devotee of freedom and democracy. Thus, the 
question arises - who is Lebed actually working for?
In order to answer that question we need only look at who he is talking to. Is 
it not symbolic that he flew to the talks with Maskhadov on Albakov's plane? Do 
you remember that name? Our newspaper and other publications too have repeatedly 
said that he is a well-known drugs baron. Transport and other services were then 
supplied by one Khachalayev, who, the Chechens claim, is a well-known mob 
godfather. Incidentally, shortly before Lebed's visit to Chechnya Khachalayev, 
according to Azerbaijani press reports, was in Baku, where the republic's 
security minister held instructive talks with him. Incidentally, other members 
of the Azerbaijani Government refused to meet with Khachalayev.

People in Chechnya are now saying that Lebed's meetings with Maskhadov and 
Yandarbiyev were held in the "castles in the air." That is what people here call 
the palaces built as a result of the operations with letters of credit.
What results can be expected from meetings with people whose word is no more 
than empty noise until they can see some advantage in it for them? Thus, you 
will recall that for a short while before the Russian presidential election the 
semblance of a lull in the fighting was successfully created. Perhaps it will be 
again before the U.S. presidential election. Lebed will be able to achieve the 
same thing. But only temporarily. There is no hope that the war will be finally 
brought to an end even if Chechnya wins the status of independent state.
The fact is that those who know about the reality of Chechnya are perfectly well 
aware that the republic's territory is shared among field commanders - as Russia 
likes to call them - who are actually gang ringleaders. Neither Maskhadov nor 
Yandarbiyev can give them orders. The coordination of their actions, or any kind 
of reliability or discipline in these formations is a myth. So when you sit down 
to negotiate with some of them, you have to win the support of others. But that 
is impossible - just as impossible, say, as simultaneously reaching agreement 
with the Solntsevo, Izmaylovo, and other crime gangs in Moscow. Yet we are 
talking about precisely this kind of formation and the laws espoused by them.
Of course, we could get distressed about the fact that the lofty status of our 
country's Security Council secretary has been brought down to such a level. But, 
after all, the president himself had previously talked peace with them - and not 
in some village, but in the Kremlin!

It remains a mystery why at a decisive moment instead of supporting the 
legitimate Chechen Government the Kremlin preferred bandits to it every time. As 
soon as the development of the intra-Chechen dialogue, which was the only thing 
that could have solved the problem, started getting somewhere, the Kremlin 
immediately started playing games with the bandits - pushing [Chechen Republic 
leader] Zavgayev into the background, as is happening now. This looks like a 
betrayal not only in respect of Zavgayev himself - after all, it is not a 
question of actual personalities now. The fact is that the Chechen Republic 
Government persistently and consistently insists that Chechnya is part of 
Russia. That is something that Zavgayev himself has repeatedly stated - and 
those who dream of destroying Russia will have their revenge on him for it.
Will the war end even if our troops leave? Even if there is a short truce? 
Sadly, no. The jinni has been let out of the bottle. A whole stratum of people 
has been formed in Chechnya who can live no other way but in a state of war. And 
they are well armed. They were first helped out in 1991, when Shaposhnikov and 
Grachev hurriedly withdrew our Army, leaving mountains of weapons behind. The 
second time, it seems, the mission has been handed to Lebed - whole detachments 
are already disarming, and the general calls this a misunderstanding. So this 
volcano, which is so convenient for presidents both on this and the other side 
of the Atlantic, will continue to smolder. It is an ace up the sleeve that is 
costing hundreds of thousands of lives.
