Space Shuttle's SIR-C/X-SAR Detects Volcanoes in Western Kunlun Mountains

Imaging-radar remote sensing is one of the spearhead 
technologies of Earth-observation technology of the 1990s. SAR (Synthetic 
aperture radar) side-transmitted electromagnetic waves are very sensitive to the 
rough surface of the earth and can highlight topographic data and articulate 
surface features to a fine degree, making them particularly useful for finding 
volcanoes. Reference 1 discusses the consistent success of airborne and 
spaceborne imaging-radar remote sensing technology in finding volcanoes on earth 
and on the other celestial bodies. 

The Western Kunlun Mountains are located in the cross-connecting zone between 
the Tarim and Tibet-Indian tectonic plates, which has been an area of interest 
to the geoscience world for a long time, especially the volcanic activity in the 
area since the Cenozoic Era. The area is particularly important to the study of 
the laws of tectonic structural activities and geological development. The 
Shuttle Imaging Radar-C (SIR-C) system is the most advanced imaging-radar system 
of this century. It was the first multiband quadripolar simultaneous imaging SAR 
system to operate at an earth-orbit altitude. In April 1994, the Space Shuttle 
Endeavor carried this system over China's Western Kunlun Mountain area and 
captured multiband, multipolarization imaging-radar data. This paper used SIR-C 
radar imagery to probe the volcano group at northeastern Aksay Lake (Aksayqin 
Hu) and the upper reaches of Quanshuigou in the Western Kunlun Mountains above 
5,400 meters ASL. 

Earlier research (reference 2) credited this volcanic area with only four 
volcanic cones, and nine were found in this study, including the four recorded 
in ref. 2, which were clearly evident for their mass and cone formations. They 
are surrounded by a cover of Quaternary sediment, easy to detect in the field. 
The largest volcanic cone is an egg shaped formation 4 km2 in area, and the 
smaller ones are less than 1 km2. Five volcanic cones were found for the first 
time by using the multiband, multipolarized radar images. They appear as 
circular radial volcanoes at about the same rolling elevation as the surrounding 
topography. The base areas of these cones are less than 1 km2, and their area of 
spread might be 3 to 4 km2. Their lava flows are of two types: block lava, 
mainly distributed chaotically around the broken volcanoes, the largest blocks 
of which may be over one meter high, and they are generally vesicular and 
amygdaloidal in structure. The other type is ropey lava which is mainly 
distributed on the south side of the volcanoes. They appear as nearly level 
fan-shaped flows 10 to 12 km wide that extend in a north-south direction for 
about 23 km. The surface appears as flat pancakes with scattered fine vesicular 
lava blocks. 

Petrochemical, rare earth and microelement analysis done on seven volcanic 
samples taken from the area found that the volcanic rock is phonolitic tephrite 
with over 0.8 percent Na2O + K2O content, and there is more K2O than Na2O which 
places it in the typical potassium basaltic compound described by Morrison. The 
rare earth elements were quite rich in light rare earths and the negative 
anomalies of europium were basically absent. Such lithophile elements as Rb, Sr, 
Ba, Th, Nb, Ta, Zr and Hf were abundant among the microelements. The age of K-Ar 
isotopes in the volcanic rock of the area is 7.45 to 3.97 Ma, and for Rb-Sr 
isotopes the linear-time age is 4.65 Ma, which puts it in the Pliocene to 
Miocene epochs. The ab initio 87Sr/86Sr change was in the range of 0.708,003 to 
0.708,440, and the 143Nd/144Nd change was 0.512,382 to 0.512,426, which 
demonstrates high 87Sr/86Sr and low 143Nd/144Nd characteristics. 
The awful environment, treacherous terrain and high altitude make the western 
Kunlun Mountains a difficult place in which to do field work, and the excellent 
capabilities of imaging-radar to detect volcanic formations make it an ideal 
means of volcanic exploration in that area. 

References 

1. Gaddis L.R., Mouginis-Mark P.J., Singer R., et al. Geologic analyses of 
Shuttle Imaging Radar (SIR-B) date of Kilauea volcano, Hawaii. Bulletin of the 
Geological Society of America, 1989, 101:317-374. 

2. Xinjiang Uygur AR Geology and Mining Bureau. Xinjiang Uygur AR Regional 
Geology Journal, No 32; Beijing, Geology Press, 1993. 
