UK Article Examines US Missile Defense Plans, N Korea Nuclear Capabilities

    Number 26 General Plant in Kanggye in North Korea's Chagang-Do province is a 
vast underground complex of concrete hangars located in a forbidden zone guarded 
by the army.   It is not marked on any map.   The only visible sign of the 
factory on the surface is seven clusters of buildings linked by a straggle of 
roads.   There are few places on the planet that are more secret.   

    Last week, the uniformed men and women who labour in the workshops and 
machine rooms at Kanggye found themselves at ground zero in the biggest shake-up 
for nuclear proliferation policy in a generation.   Hidden from the eyes of the 
world the workers of Kanggye are building North Korea's most sophisticated 
missile - the Taepo Dong II - a three-stage rocket that the United States 
believes is capable of hurling a 750 kilo nuclear warhead across the polar 
wastes to hit western US cities.   

    Last week the Taepo Dong II - unseen, untested and unflown - became the 
casus belli of America's new 'cold war'.   It is the reason - ostensibly at 
least - why President George W. Bush is preparing to tear up the 30-year-old 
Anti-Ballistic Missile (ABM) Treaty, cornerstone of all subsequent nuclear 
treaties.   

    It is the reason why Bush and his hawkish advisers are proposing to spend 
upwards of $100 billion on a sea, land and space-borne National Missile Defence 
umbrella - a system explicitly forbidden by the ABM treaty - whose deployment, 
its many critics say, risks plunging the world into a new era of weapons 
proliferation and nuclear uncertainty.   

    Ultimately, too, it is the reason for the uncomfortable position that the 
Government of Tony Blair finds itself in.   The plan is dependent on British 
permission for America to upgrade its radar site at Fylingdales in North 
Yorkshire.   Now Britain is caught between the disapproval of the rest of the 
world and the insistence of its most important ally.   

    But while Bush and his Pentagon hawks may in the end be wrong in pursuing 
their National Missile Defence system at risk of established and functioning 
nuclear treaties, the Taepo Dong II also represents a challenge to the 
President's critics.   For it is one of the most visible signs of how the world 
has changed since Richard Nixon and Leonid Brezhnev sat down in 1972 and signed 
the ABM treaty.   

    Then, Warsaw Pact forces occupied half of Europe and the world was still 
under the shadow of the Cuban missile crisis.   If Bush's plans get no further 
than the Senate floor he has at least opened a crucial - if angry - debate about 
what nuclear defences and agreements are appropriate for the New World Disorder. 
  

    On paper the National Missile Defence system should be a nuclear 
abolitionist's dream: a system designed to make the threat of nuclear weapons 
once and for all redundant.   If it can be made to work it will create a network 
of satellites, laser-armed Boeing 747s continuously in flight, missile ships and 
ground missile launchers that would identify and destroy any threatening missile 
in flight.   It is a very big if.   

    "If this really was an argument for making nuclear weapons obsolete, as Bush 
implies, then of course anyone would welcome it," says Dan Plesch of the British 
American Security Information Centre.   "If there really was a death ray that 
could destroy nuclear missiles in flight, then who could oppose it?   But it is 
fallible.   And if it is fallible it will lead to more, not less, nuclear 
proliferation.   If this system could work infallibly then the nuclear threat, 
from China, Russia, North Korea, to the US and its allies would be eradicated.   
Then America would not need nuclear weapons.   Bush says that the quid pro quo 
of installing this system is that America will cut its nuclear arsenal.   He is 
not saying he will abolish it.   The logic of that would make the US the only 
nation on earth whose missiles could hope to hit its enemies."   

    It is this that is alarming opponents of the NMD.   For beneath the 
US-touted radicalism of a vision that Bush's advisers say would lance the threat 
of rogue nuclear proliferating states, while making deep unilateral cuts in 
America's nuclear arsenal, they fear that other more sinister agendas are at 
work.   

    When George Bush arrived at work in the governor's mansion in Texas on 30 
August 1998 he was already contemplating a presidential run.   He was not, 
however, expecting the call he received from his party's leader on Capitol Hill, 
Trent Lott.   

    Lott had news for Bush that was being greeted in intelligence circles as 
ominous.   North Korea, said Lott, had successfully tested a medium-range 
missile capable of reaching targets in Japan.   Governor Bush already knew what 
his response would be were he ever to become president.   That test - and the 
continuing North Korean missile programme - gave him the excuse he needed to 
make that 'response' official policy.   Last week he did just that.   

    The launching of the first generation prototype of the Taepo Dong I by North 
Korea in August 1998 was a gift for Bush and his supporters in the US defence 
industry and on the Republican Right.   Bush and his allies - many of whom 
served in the administrations of Ronald Reagan and his own father - shared a 
common view.   The thrust of US policy on nuclear defence under Clinton was all 
wrong with its focus on negotiated reductions and the administration's 
reluctance to deploy a National Missile Defence system of the kind that had 
become an article of faith for Republicans.   

    The battle for supremacy with Russia, they reasoned, had been won.   The 
inheritors of the Soviet Union's formidable nuclear arsenal no longer posed a 
threat; by implication the ABM treaty was redundant.   They were frustrated too 
by the glacial pace of nuclear disarmament negotiations stalled since the US and 
Russia signed (but never implemented) the Start 2 treaty in 1993.   

    Instead, they were fixated on the threat posed by China, a nuclear state 
that was not a signatory to the ABM treaty, and which they suspected of 
exporting nuclear and missile technology to North Korea, Pakistan, Iran and 
Iraq.   Above all, they shared a belief in the supremacy of US military, 
economic and technological power that they felt was being hobbled by the 
collaborative rituals of negotiation that were relics of the Cold War.   

    If any more proof is needed of the new unilateralist mood in Washington, it 
is provided by evidence that the Bush administration is preparing to scale down 
- if not abandon - what many regard as the single most important global security 
programme: the co-operative effort between the US and Russia to slash the vast 
nuclear arsenal of the former USSR, and prevent proliferation of deadly nuclear 
materials.   

    The administration has already cut more than $100 million from the $874m 
spent on co-operation projects with Russia under the auspices of the Department 
of Energy.   More ominously, it has put the programme at the core of the effort 
- the so called Nunn-Lugar Programme - 'under review'.   

    The project - which has survived all the ups and downs between Washington 
and Moscow - is named after the two senators who devised and direct the scheme, 
Republican Richard Lugar and retired Democrat Sam Nunn.   It involves hundreds 
of US officials and contractees working at remote sites to neutralise every 
instrument of nuclear war.   

    It is due to run until 2007, and has already overseen the destruction of 
5,336 warheads, 422 Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles, 367 silos, 425 cruise 
missiles and almost a fleet of fully-equipped and armed nuclear submarines.   It 
was under this programme that the Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan gave up their 
nuclear arsenals.   

    The administration's potential threat to the programme has detonated the 
most serious rebellion against the Bush White House by any senior Republican on 
any issue.   Last week Senator Lugar gave a thunderous speech at a private 
function warning: "There are no programmes as critical to US security as those 
aimed at containing and dismantling the nuclear, chemical and biological warfare 
infrastructure of the former Soviet Union.   The administration must ensure that 
these efforts are managed efficiently and funded properly".   

    In the explosion of international anger that greeted Bush's speech, Britain, 
which has so long cast itself as America's closest ally, has been caught in the 
crossfire.   Despite the encouraging noises of Tony Blair and his spokesman 
Alastair Campbell over British collaboration with the programme, privately some 
senior officials and Ministers are deeply concerned.   

    "We are stuck with this one," said one senior official.   "Bush has made us 
an offer we can't refuse.   The only negotiating position open to us is to say: 
'What's in this for us?' We have to make the best of a bad deal."   

    The best of that bad deal - say sources - is focused on two British demands: 
that if Britain permits the upgrading of Fylingdales, then it should also get 
access to more US intelligence; and over the level of protection that the US 
would offer Britain under the shield.   

    "It's not an arrangement or a deal," said a Pentagon source last week 
commenting on visits by Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon and Foreign Secretary Robin 
Cook to Washington to discuss the plan.   "It's an accord which is necessary if 
the missile defence system is to be effectively operative.   To be part of the 
shield is to be part of the intelligence system that supports it."   

    A British official said: "Both Hoon and Cook have met and talked over the 
benefits with their opposite numbers in the new administration.   That includes 
the political, diplomatic and technical issues, although there is concern in 
Whitehall that while Russia has been embraced, the Chinese have been left in the 
open."   

    Indeed, British policy has been moving closer towards the US position all 
the time.   As early as last January, Hoon said he was 'sympathetic' to the US 
need for National Missile Defence.   "The United Kingdom views a threat to the 
USA's national security as being a threat to the UK's interests - and vice 
versa," he said.   "When the time comes we will weigh up the benefits to the 
UK."   
