Japanese Military Expert on Future of Korean Peninsula

    North Korea -- Emphasis of Unification and Emergence of Korean Ethnicism

    Emergence of Nationalism

    The end of the Cold War was supposed to bring order and stability to the 
world, but sources of disputes and confrontations have not diminished. Terrorism 
continues on a global scale and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction 
has not ceased. Security is still an important issue for contemporary global 
society, in terms of Iraq in the Middle East and safety of ocean transportation 
routes.

    The security issue is important, because countries, peoples, and regions in 
the post-Cold War world have all begun to assert themselves. Nationalistic moods 
have unexpectedly intensified in the post-Cold War period.

    The signing of a North-South Basic Agreement between South and North Korea 
took place in 1991 and a mood for maintaining a dialogue on the Korean peninsula 
heightened, because of emerging opportunities for resolution of problems via 
intra-Korean dialogue and ties to the nationalistic mood. The spread of 
nationalism on the Korean peninsula was a major reason for progress of 
North-South dialogue and signing of the North-South Agreement.    Progress was 
made on North-South dialogue, as a result of mutual agreement that they should 
"discuss North-South unification and show Korea's glory to the world."    
Accordingly, North-South dialogue progressed with the assumption of a rigid 
stance by South Korea against Japan and the United States and North Korea 
attempted assumption of the initiative in North-South dialogue, while embracing 
high hopes for South Korea criticism of Japan, because the developments were 
underpinned by North-South unification nationalism.

    Agreement to a degree between South and North and the critical stance toward 
Japan and the United States represent the two sides of the same coin called 
nationalism.

    Mysteries of East Asia and International Environment Following the Cold War

    On 8 October 1997, Kim Chong-il assumed the position of Workers Party of 
Korea general secretary, solidifying the General Secretary Kim Chong-il 
establishment. Later, North Korea displayed interest in the resumption of 
four-way talks, enthusiasm for improvement in Japan-North Korea relations, and 
has shown no major changes in policies.    Generally speaking, interested 
nations assumed a welcome stance concerning Kim Chong-il's assumption of duties 
as general secretary as bringing transparency to the negotiating process. 

    On the other hand, the Korean peninsula was effected by a China-US summit in 
Washington at the end of October 1997, leading to signs of improvement in 
US-China relations.    However, China-North Korea military relations have 
improved, while China, North Korea, and US relations are complex. It is still 
unclear as to whether improvements in North Korea-China relations can be treated 
as part of a trend for relaxation in tensions. US-North Korea negotiations have 
been conducted via several channels, while US-South Korea and Japan-US security 
relations have been reinforced. Progress had been made simultaneously in 
US-North Korea relations and the two alliances. However, no signs exist of 
progress in terms of "improvement in North-South Korea relations" called for in 
the US-North Korea agreement of October 1994.

    It is in such a manner that the Northeast Asian international environment 
continues to present a complex picture. In such a situation, moves between 
post-Cold War China and North Korea are a mystery.

    In the early 1990's, the East-West Cold War in Europe ended and discussions 
emerged about the arrival of an era of peace and an end to the era of 
militarism. Even in Japan, rising from the ranks of experts was a discussion on 
multilateral security systems, and it appeared that mainstream discussions would 
assert an end to the role of military power. However, at that stage, China and 
North Korea engaged in test-firings of missiles and conspicuous military 
expansion. China engaged in military exercises, including missile launchings, 
while North Korea assumed a negative stance concerning inspections by 
international agencies to eliminate nuclear suspicions on the part of that 
country.

    The fact that the importance of the security sector has garnered attention 
owing to Chinese and North Korean military actions in the post-Cold War period 
is probably an irony of global politics for that period. Do these developments 
reflect miscalculations on the part of China and North Korea? Or is it that they 
embrace perceptions of external affairs that we fail to see?

    At a minimum, the Northeast Asian situation did not progress in the same way 
as Europe, because global opinion hardened towards Chinese and North Korean 
actions. When researchers view the 1990's ten years from now, they will probably 
label their research as "Inexplicable Policies of China and North Korea."

    Three Points Concerning North Korea's Future

    When considering the future of North Korea, the following three points will 
probably be of significance.

    First, there are the relations between the military and Kim Chong-il. 
General Secretary Kim Chong-il maintained leadership with the backing of the 
military and built his leadership based on the National Defense Commission 
[NDC]. Even after he was recommended as the WPK general secretary on 8 October 
1997, North Korean official news agencies would refer to Kim Chong-il as "Great 
leader of our party and our people, who is the chairman of the NDC of the 
Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) and supreme commander of the Korean 
People's Army." Military titles are importance to Kim Chong-il. There has been 
no change in the trend to strive for reform and economic reconstruction, while 
controlling domestic ideology based on military influence.

    Is Kim Chong-il a reformer? How does he view reform and opening? These are 
points of significance that warrant attention. Of initial importance is the 
significance of "reform and opening" in North Korea. Will adopting Chinese style 
reform constitute reform? If we were to view as a criterion the degree to which 
domestic laws have been revised to accept foreign investments, strictly 
interpreted, we would have to say that North Korea has not begun to progress 
towards reform and opening.

    In 1984, North Korea promulgated a Joint Venture Law, and began to establish 
domestic measures to accept foreign investment. It can be said that North Korea 
has gradually assumed a cooperative stance, when one considers the Free Economic 
Zone established in the Najin-Sonbong district, collaboration with the Korean 
Peninsula Energy Development Organization (KEDO), and acceptance of 
representatives of the World Food Council in connection with the World Food 
Program involved in the provision of food aid to the country. A question 
probably concerns whether such moves represent minor policy adjustments for the 
purpose of merely securing aid from foreign sources.

    It is still too early to reach a conclusion on that point. The reason is 
that it is unclear relative to China as to whether foreign firms with joint 
ventures in North Korea will be allowed to make foreign remittances of profits 
earned. Moreover, contacts between South and North workers on the light-water 
reactor supply project have been very limited and probably could not be 
categorized as a case of opening the country to the outside world.

    North Korea's recent policies have definitely incorporated openness and the 
policies are similar to the course assumed by South Korea in the 1960's. The 
assumption of strong military leadership (in the 1960's, the South Korean Army 
assuming responsibility for the modernization of South Korea and the KPA playing 
larger roles emphasizing economic reconstruction) and situation in which 
charismatic leaders embrace a policy of collaboration with the United States and 
shift to an openness stance reflect reciprocal qualities.

    Regarding the current policy course of North Korea, there is the possibility 
that ideas reflected in Pak Chong-hui's policies in South Korea have appeared in 
North Korea. If that is the case, in the case of North Korea, General Secretary 
Kim Chong-il will probably further expand his authority as he introduces 
country-opening policies backed by the WPK and influence of the so-called 
omnipotent KPA. 

    The second point of significance concerns reinforcement of relations with 
China. After the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991 and Russian aid could no longer 
be relied upon, North Korea has had no choice but to rely on aid from China for 
procurement of material, such as, military equipment, oil, food, and clothing.

    In the area of relations with China, in January 1994, WPK Secretary Hwang 
Chang-sop visited China and conferred with General Secretary Jiang Zemin, when 
signs of restoration of relations began to become visible. In June 1995, Chief 
of Staff Ch'oe Kwang visited China and engaged in a series of talks with the 
highest-ranking leaders of the Chinese Army like Minister of National Defense 
Chi Haotian and Chairman of Central Military Commission General Zhang Wannian. 
When one considers that these talks were held after suspension of military aid 
for North Korea by Russia, there is a high probability that China and North 
Korea both engaged in extensive talks concerning the supply of military 
equipment.    

    The third point of significance probably concerns continuing emphasis of 
North Korea to improve relations with the United States. In 1994, the United 
States and North Korea signed a US-North Korean agreement and agreed to build 
light-water reactors over the ensuing 10 years in exchange for North Korean 
closure of two graphite-moderated reactors. Although the US-North Korea 
agreement was a document that put off detailed discussions into the future, from 
the North Korean viewpoint they gained significant concessions from the 
standpoint of delays in inspection obligations and avoidance of economic 
sanctions. North Korea's principal negotiating partner has been the United 
States, but it can be expected to continue with its style of seeking 
improvements in relations with Japan while strengthening ties with the United 
States as well as maintaining a dialogue with South Korea.

    North Korea's principal goal, rather than being the acquisition of a 
light-water reactors requiring more than 10 years for completion, was the 
procurement of heavy oil, avoidance of special inspections, improvement of 
relations and establishment of diplomacy with the United States, and access to 
Japanese capital. That being the case, there is the possibility that further 
complications will arise in US-North Korea negotiations concerning KEDO and 
negotiations with countries comprising KEDO. Also, resolution of suspicions 
regarding North Korean nuclear developments will probably persist a lot longer 
than imagined.

    What Is Expected of 20 Million Middle-Class People in South Korea

    The scene was the conference hall at Panmunjom at the demilitarized zone on 
the Korean peninsula several years ago.

    "The South Korean population is 40 million and the North Korean population 
is 20 million. Of the South Korean, population, 10 million view the North Korean 
chuch'e ideology to be correct, while another 10 million think the current South 
Korean government system is preferable.    However, the remaining 20 million 
view the turmoil in South Korea and the North Korean policies towards South 
Korea and are ready to convert to chuch'e ideology at any time," are the words 
supposedly spoken by a North Korean reporter to a Japanese reporter, who had 
come to Panmunjom to cover meetings at the site. The story agrees with the 
"theory about 20 million middle-class people in South Korea (the theory that 
South Korea has a new middle class of 20 million that embrace pragmatic, 
flexible ideas)," embraced by South Korean political researchers. This story is 
circulating among North Koreans along with the democratization of South Korea.

    This statement by a North Korean reporter represents an important episode in 
discussing North Korean policies.    The reason is that North Korea continues 
with its past policies, because "the change taking place among 20 million South 
Koreans means that more than one-half of the people on the Korean peninsula as a 
whole belong to the "chuch'e faction." Therefore, as can be seen in reports 
covered by Nodong Sinmun and P'yongyang broadcasts, North Korea continues to 
watch trends in South Korea. Since North Korea hopes for a change in South 
Korea, there is a tendency to exaggerate segments where it hopes for a change. 
The story about North Korean treatment of "1995 as the year for initiation of 
unification" was based on its belief that 20 million middle class people in 
South Korea had undergone a change. The significant point to be seen in viewing 
North Korean, policy is that "North Korea is gambling on the possibility of 
change in South Korea."

    Needless to say, since North Korea has witnessed the collapse of the Soviet 
Union and Eastern Europe, it must feel a degree of malaise. After all, North 
Korea has probably never considered how North Korea might collapse and the 
ultimate fate of North Korea when that should happen.

    This particular aspect logically suffers from a dearth of data. However, 
East German Ambassador Hans Maleski, stationed in P'yongyang at the time of the 
collapse of the Berlin Wall in 1989, in April 1996, delivered a speech in Berlin 
in which he said, "After the unification of Germany, the North Korean military 
performed a concentrated study of the dismantlement and merger of the East 
Germany Army into West Germany, but I am not aware of the purpose of the study." 
That represents an interesting episode and if the story were factual, it would 
mean that a degree of unease exists in North Korea.

    What Will Happen to North-South Relations Under the Kim Tae-chung 
Administration?     

    Anything Possible at End of Century

    How will North-South relations change? Let us consider this question in 
relation to the South Korean presidential election.

    They say that there is no telling what will happen in connection with the 
end of the century. Recently, any purchase made in town in terms of a daily 
consumer item is a product made in China, electrical appliances are made in 
Malaysia, dress shirts are made in Vietnam, while a sharp decline in South 
Korean-made products has led to news about a South Korean economic crisis. At 
the end of 1997, heard in Seoul were the words, "trust territory of the 
International Monetary Fund (IMF)," causing South Koreans to become depressed. 
Japan consulted with the IMF and the United States and decided on stretching out 
repayment schedules for South Korean short-term debt, but people were surprised 
by the huge amounts of money loaned to South Korea by Japanese banks. The South 
Korean government considered delaying the purchase of four Airborne Warning and 
Control Systems (AWACS) and is in the process of reducing defense outlays. The 
economic crisis is effecting the security of South Korea. During the 1990's, we 
have discussed only the possibility of economic failure and structural collapse 
in North Korea, but, in viewing the sharp changes on the Korean peninsula, we 
note that still valid is the lesson taught by global politics, which says, 
"Never say never."

    South Korea has given rise to the Kim Tae-chung administration. Five years 
ago, everyone thought a Kim Tae-chung administration was impossible. The 
majority view was that Kim Tae-chung was nothing more than a representative of 
the Cholla region. This indeed was a case of "Never say never." Since Kim 
Tae-chung's task is to seek economic reconstruction based on collaboration with 
Japan and the United States, there is the view that he will set aside 
North-South Summits and aggressive unification plans.    However, I would say it 
is a case of "Never say never."    By nature, Kim Tae-chung is a "man of ethnic 
principles."    During the election campaigns, he shunned the use of Japanese 
and habitually wore paji chogori (Korean men's clothing) at home. Kim Tae-chung 
is a man of strong convictions, who in the past advocated the conduct of 
dialogue with North Korea from the special position of South Korea as part of 
the same ethnic group. The Kim Tae-chung administration's major goals include 
unification and North-South Summits. Key words to be used by South Korea in the 
next five years will be "fellow Koreans" and "unification." It would be better 
to assume the view that South Korea's policies towards the North will change 
significantly.

    The question is, how North Korea will view the arrival in P'yongyang of a 
Kim Tae-chung, who advocates improvements in North-South relations and is the 
proponent of democracy for the masses. When Kim Tae-chung resolves to seek 
improvement in North-South relations, there may be times when he will voice an 
objection to US-North Korean relations being given priority over North-South 
dialogue.    In viewing the South Korean economic crisis and birth of the Kim 
Tae-chung administration ahead of New Year 1998, General Secretary Kim may have 
construed the two events as representing two different windfalls. North Korea 
appears to be cautious in its assessment of the Kim Tae-chung administration, 
because it is surprised at the unexpected situation and is keeping watch, 
saying, "In view of two close associate conservative politicians in the way of 
Kim Chong-p'il and Pak Tae-chun, let us watch their policies following 
inauguration." General Secretary Kim Chong-il may have muttered, "There's no 
such word as 'never.'"

    Such being the case, North-South reconciliation will be difficult. I would 
say that it is a case of "never say never." The South Korean economic crisis is 
demonstrating that South Korea and North Korea are mutually dependent.    The 
reason is that if the South Korean economy fails, it will not be able to handle 
its $4 billion obligation for the light-water reactor supply project. A delay 
will be imposed on construction of the North Korean light-water reactor, 
followed by an adverse impact on US-North Korea talks and four-way 
consultations. Such developments will signal the failure of US soft-landing 
policies towards North Korea. A failure in the South Korean economy translates 
into problems for North Korea and global society, thus resulting in agreement by 
the world to extend aid to South Korea.

    North-South Korea relations are not a case of "winning or losing," but can 
be construed in a way as giving birth to mutual dependency. New signs are 
emerging in the Cold War structure of Northeast Asia. It is again a case of 
"never say never."

    Aim Is Settlement Among Fellow Koreans

    Kim Tae-chung, who has run for the presidency since the days of Pak 
Chong-hui, garnered a ballot count of 40.3 percent, enabling him to score a 
narrow victory over Yi Hoe-ch'ang with a ballot count of 38.7 percent. The 
narrow margin makes it difficult to analyze the significance of the South Korean 
people's choice, but we cannot attribute Kim Tae-chung's victory purely to "two 
candidates affiliated with the ruling party, a split of votes in Kyongsang, and 
a united casting of ballots in Cholla." Kim Tae-chung has advocated change, and 
enjoys the image of a critic of South Korea conservatives unprecedented since 
Pak Chong-hui. If voters did not agree with that position, ballots other than 
those belonging to the stable ballots in Cholla should have been diverted away 
from Kim Tae-chung.     

    Again, this probably should be viewed as reflecting South Korean voters 
choice of Kim Tae-chung as a way of seeking change.   What are the policies of 
the new administration? How will future North-South relations develop?

    The new administration's policies will center on the economic sector as 
stated by Kim Tae-chung.    Implementation of economic reform, a commitment with 
the IMF, will be given highest priority, while any confrontation between labor 
and employers in the process of domestic reform will pose a worst-case scenario 
for the Kim Tae-chung administration. Even in that respect, he will probably 
place emphasis on relations with the United States and Japan.

    Also, a feature goal of President Kim Tae-chung is unification. On 19 
December 1997, Kim Tae-chung, held a press conference at the National Assembly 
Hall and stated, "I would like to seek a way of resolving our problems among 
fellow Koreans via direct North-South dialogue," suggesting the promotion of 
direct talks between South and North Korea. Also, he said that he would talk 
directly with General Secretary Kim Chong-il, if necessary, and even mentioned 
resumption of an exchange of North-South special emissaries, which was not 
realized under the Kim Yong-sam administration. Kim Tae-chung, as a presidential 
candidate, has for some time appealed for summits, and has in effect confirmed 
that position. When I heard of such remarks, I recalled that a youthful 
researcher at Kim Tae-chung's think-tank said in the fall of 1997, at the 
beginning of the election race, "The new administration will feature 
unification."

    However, Kim Tae-chung has suggested a gradual unification plan. At the same 
press conference, he stated, "We will implement exchange and collaboration based 
on the North-South Agreement of 1991." He stated that this will be based on the 
South -North Basic Agreement calling for gradual reconciliation and exchanges 
between the South and North and cautioned against haste concerning the 
unification plan. 

    How about the domestic leadership of Kim Tae-chung?    Since the ruling 
National Congress for New Politics will be the minority party in the National 
Assembly, the view is that it will not wield much influence in the way of 
leadership. However, since Kim Tae-chung possesses certain traits as an 
individual, there is the possibility he will become a president exercising 
energetic leadership. As long as he abides by the principle of promoting the 
idea with South Korea playing a central role, it will be easy to reach a 
consensus in South Korea on unification policy.    Moreover, since the Kim 
Tae-chung administration enjoys the cooperation of the United Liberal Democrats 
Kim Chong-p'il and Pak Tae-chun, it enjoys wider ranging support than any other 
predecessor administration.

    This situation is already reflected in policies dealing with Japan. In 
January 1998, Kim Tae-chung sent Kim Sun-hwan of the Japan-South Korea Dietmen 
Alliance, a supporter of the ruling party candidate, in an attempt to coordinate 
matters in connection with the expiration of the Japan-South Korea Fisheries 
Agreement. The Kim Tae-chung administration is more fine-tuned than the Kim 
Yong-sam administration and will probably use informal channels to promote 
diplomacy.

    Now, the question is, what sort of policies will he launch? Among Kim 
Tae-chung's unification experts is an individual named Yang Song-ch'ol of the 
New Politics People's Council. Kim Tae-chung has focused on Yang as a native of 
Cholla, the same as Kim Tae-chung, and as a National Assembly member, former 
scholar, and leading expert on North Korean issues. Kim has continuously asked 
Yang for his assistance on unification issues in the political sector and 
reportedly Yang finally agreed to enter politics in connection with the last 
National Assemblymen election. Yang was recruited to serve as a new key person 
in connection with Kim Tae-chung's unification policies. In connection with Kim 
Tae-chung's unification policies, Yang has said, "They are flexible and gradual 
in approach and embrace three principles: peace, independence, and liberal 
democracy. We have come to the stage where we can shift from previous passive, 
status quo policies to more positive and creative policies."

    Under the Kim Yong-sam administration, the North-South Basic Agreement was 
neglected, while US-North Korea talks continued, and only food-aid to North 
Korea from South Korea was negotiated via North-South Red Cross talks.    
Four-way talks were an idea that the Kim Yong-sam administration had floated, 
but North Korea failed to recognize its significance. It can be said that 
North-South relations were stalemated under the Kim Yong-sam administration.    

    In contrast to that situation, National Assembly member Yang Song-ch'ol 
asserts four-way negotiations "should be construed as means to improve 
North-South relations."    Accordingly, the Kim Tae-chung administration's 
unification policies can be understood to give highest priority to North-South 
contacts and conferences attended by surrounding nations can be positioned as a 
means to North-South dialogue. Kim Tae-chung's unification policies again will 
place emphasis on "ethnicity." 

    North Korea "Has Expectations" Regarding Kim Tae-chung Administration        
           

    What concern does North Korea exercise regarding the Kim Tae-chung 
administration? North Korea has begun to display interest in connection with the 
birth of a president, who stresses improvements in North-South relations based 
on ethnicity. As of the end of January 1998, North Korea has not issued an 
official statement concerning the Kim Tae-chung administration, but North Korea 
appears to have welcomed the birth of the Kim Tae-chung administration.

    For example, on 22 December 1997, the 4th North-South Red Cross 
representatives' conference was held in Beijing, China, and, during the meeting, 
North Korea stated, "In connection with the new South Korean president, the 
inauguration of the new administration should lead to an improvement in 
North-South relations." This was the first response from North Korea following 
the presidential election. They probably expressed themselves at an unofficial 
meeting instead an official gathering, because the words of welcome were 
intended to be limited to reference to the unification policies and because the 
Kim Tae-chung administration had stated it intended to continue with the last 
administration's policies on the US Forces in Korea as well as policies 
concerning Japan and the United States.

    Subsequently, North Korea's Korean Central Broadcasting Station and 
P'yongyang Broadcasting Station on 1 January 1998 announced a joint editorial 
prepared by Nodong Sinmun (Workers Party organ) and Choson Inmingun (Army organ) 
saying, "Let us engage in a general advance in the New Year in tune with the 
leadership of the great party." The editorial was the first official issuance by 
North Korea following assumption of duties by Kim Chong-il as general secretary, 
and is of crucial significance. The editorial does not express any North Korean 
doubts about Kim Tae-chung, and should probably be interpreted as expressing 
hope for the Kim Tae-chung administration while imposing some conditions.

    The editorial states in reference to the South Korean election, "This is a 
case where the administrations merely rotate along with the president and will 
not bring any changes in South Korea." This is a statement, which recognizes 
that there has been a change in administration. If a ruling party candidate had 
won the election, North Korea probably would not even recognize the fact that a 
change in government took place. The statement means that they will wait to see 
the actual policies before determining whether the hoped-for type of government 
has been born.

    And in terms of what the Kim Tae-chung administration should do, the 
editorial states, "It should change its anti-North confrontation policy to a 
Northern alliance and reconciliation policy; remove concrete barriers; abolish 
the National Security Law, which is an evil fascist law; and dismantle the 
Agency for National Security Planning [NSP] (former Korean Central Intelligence 
Agency), thus demonstrating a desire for unification. The statement can be 
interpreted as making reference to the Kim Tae-chung [abduction] incident of 
August 1973 and a request to the new administration to dismantle the NSP. Thus, 
the editorial continues, "We will monitor South Korean officials' future 
attitudes from such a viewpoint." The editorial presents two clear-cut 
conditions for South Korea under its new president for any response to Kim 
Tae-chung administration proposals, which consist of abolishment of the National 
Security Law and dismantling of the NSP.

    Further, US Senator Carl Levin, who visited North Korea on 19 January, has 
introduced a story about meeting North Korean Ministry of Foreign Affairs Deputy 
Minister Kim Kye-kwan, who was quoted as saying, "(North Korea) awaits (the 
resumption of North-South dialogue) and we are carefully monitoring (Kim 
Tae-chung policies)." 

    In 1997, North Korea made some changes in personnel assigned to spy agencies 
dealing with South Korea, placed some South Korean natives in the spy agency 
dealing with South Korea, assigned Asia-Pacific Peace Committee Deputy Chairman 
Yi Chong-hyok, a native of South Ch'ungch'ong Province of South Korea as 
chairman of the Korean Institute of National Unification and Kim Ku-sik, deputy 
chairman of the Asia-Pacific Peace Committee, native of the same South 
Ch'ungch'ong Province as the chief of the Unification Issues Research Center.

    Also, North Korea has issued a noteworthy report immediately following the 
South Korean presidential election. On 24 December, six days after the election, 
the Korean Central Broadcasting Station announced that O Ik-che, who had 
defected to North Korea in August 1997, had been appointed to the positions of 
"deputy chairman of the Motherland Peaceful Unification Committee and consultant 
to the Central Guidance Committee of the Korean Chondogyo church. O Ik-che was a 
former advisor to Kim Tae-chung.    The appointment was certainly quick, and it 
can be construed that North Korea made the announcement to signal its approval 
of Kim Tae-chung's election as president.    Nine days before the presidential 
election, O commented, "Kim Tae-chung felt that his unification plan contained 
passages that were consistent with the North Korean unification plan." However, 
the action was taken by North Korea not because it wanted to say Kim Tae-chung's 
unification plan was similar to the North Korean plan to send an unfavorable 
message prone to cause Kim Tae-chung to be defeated. Rather, it wanted to send a 
message from P'yongyang that "Kim Tae-chung is a candidate that could converse 
with North Korea on the unification issue" and steer the election in a direction 
favorable for Kim. This interpretation is probably appropriate, considering that 
North Korea had a tendency to exaggerate its assessment of "hopes for 
unification" in South Korean society. 

     New Plan of Kim Tae-chung Administration

    North Korea has been severely critical of the Kim Yong-sam administration 
and has rejected any dialogue. Talks on KEDO and North-South Red Cross talks 
have been continued for acceptance of food aid, but inter-government contacts 
have been rejected. The fact that North Korea has made an issue out of the 
failure of South Korea to send a condolence emissary upon the death of President 
Kim Il-song is a superficial matter. The question is, what about the 
interpretation that North Korea never had any intention of engaging in a 
dialogue? North Korea is afraid of a North-South dialogue. The reason is that 
elements exist in North Korea that are cautious about engaging in any 
North-South dialogue with a strong South Korean military and USFK in Korea in 
the background. The posture enables North Korea to avoid any "southerly 
influence" from South Korea and to maintain the Kim Chong-il structure. North 
Korea fears that the appearance of an administration in South Korea that is 
aggressive about dialogue could impact on North Korea's solid socialist system. 
In other words, the view is that General Secretary Kim Chong-il, who wishes to 
maintain the status quo, does not intend to engage in North-South dialogue.

    However, North Korea probably has no reason to reject South Korea's 
unification plan represented by Kim Tae-chung's Three-Stage Federation Plan with 
provisions comparable to those of North Korean President Kim Il-song's Three 
Major Goals of the Motherland Unification Charter (independence, peaceful 
unification, and major ethnic unity). When it comes to debating the unification 
issue, South Koreans are influenced by the separated family issue and undertake 
strong advocacy for early resolution and early unification and engage in heated 
discussions concerning the pros and cons over unification. North Koreans 
probably feel an administration has finally appeared that is enthused about 
dialogue and interchange.

    In the case of North Korea, independence means participation only by the 
South and North, while peaceful unification means withdrawal of US forces from 
Korea and changing the Korean war armistice to a peace agreement.    Major 
Korean unity means the formation of a unified front of all Koreans in South and 
North Korea and overseas. From the very outset, South Korea cannot debate a 
unified front exclusive of the South Korean government or a unification plan 
providing for the withdrawal of the US forces in Korea. Major differences exist 
between the concept worded, "As we engage in intra-ethnic dialogue and 
interchange, the US military presence is indispensable and as we seek a gradual 
three-stage unification," as included in Kim Tae-chung's three-stage unification 
theory, and North Korea's unification plan. Even so, from the North Korean 
perspective, since Kim Tae-chung emphasizes "ethnicity," it is a case "where we 
believe there is an opportunity to engage in dialogue and resolve our 
differences."

    Kim Tae-chung understands this perspective and has attempted to eliminate 
the concerns of South Korean conservatives. Immediately following his election, 
Kim Tae-chung commented, "In the defense sector, I plan to develop a strong 
military and make arrangements so that North Korea will not be able to target 
South Korean territory. I will aggressively maintain our alliance with the 
United States to solidify security. Security collaboration with the United 
States will be a central critical factor in the area of security." By so 
stating, he confirmed his intention to continue with security policy previously 
maintained by South Korean administrations.

    Now, the question is, what does the Kim Tae-chung administration mean when 
it speaks of emphasizing dialogue among Koreans and interchange and aggressively 
pursuing unification plans, while embracing US-South Korea security relations? 

    Specifically, we can visualize several possibilities.    South Korea intends 
to seek greater involvement between four-way talks and North-South dialogue. 
Proposed four-way talks were proposed by South Korea during the US-South Korea 
Summit on Cheju Island in April 1996, were approved by the United States, and 
were treated as a bilateral proposal. Resumption of North-South dialogue was 
prescribed in the US-North Korea agreement, but, when South Korea became unhappy 
over sole progress in US-North Korea talks, it proposed four-way talks so that 
it could become a participant in ongoing talks. Also, after preliminary talks, 
regular sessions of four-way talks began, but there are signs that North Korea 
treats US-North Korea talks as being the principal forum for discussions, 
despite its attendance at the four-way talks.

    South Korea is not necessarily content with the North Korean attitude and 
the US policy of responding to such attitude. Thus, it appears that South Korea 
would like to more closely link the four-way talks and North-South dialogue. If 
progress is not going to be made on North-South dialogue, South Korea plans on 
being passive about the four-way talks.

    On the other hand, there is the possibility that South Korea will ask the 
United States to provide for greater linkage between US-North Korea talks and 
North-South dialogue. In other words, if US-North Korea talks are to take place, 
South Korea would like for the United States to encourage North Korea to engage 
in North-South talks.

    Needless to say, a South Korea, whose diplomatic and defense programs are 
based on an alliance with the United States, is limited in the way of policy 
options. However, the recent South Korean economic crisis has forced the 
surfacing of the question of what to do about costs for covering the light-water 
reactor aid project. Accordingly, North-South dialogue, US-North Korea talks, 
four-way talks, and South Korean fiscal burdens associated with KEDO, have 
unintentionally and, without any regard for South Korean wishes, have become a 
bag of interrelated problems and have complicated the situation on the Korean 
peninsula. 

    Kim Tae-chung Administration and Two Cards    

    The birth of the Kim Tae-chung administration means that North Korea has 
acquired two new cards. They are a South Korean card and a US card. What will 
happen if North-South dialogue is resumed and North-South summit negotiations 
begin? With respect to the United States, North Korea could assume an approach 
in which it says, "If the United States will not compromise on missile talks and 
establishment of a liaison office, we can engage in a dialogue with South Korea 
without US participation." With respect to South Korea, North Korea could say, 
"If South Korea will not compromise in connection with North-South talks, we can 
suspend such talks and discuss important military issues with the United 
States." If South Korea should say, "Please do as you wish," North Korea will 
probably suspend North-South dialogue.

    If that should happen, the Kim Tae-chung administration would suffer from a 
weakening in domestic support, owing to domestic criticism, saying, "Just as 
dialogue among Koreans had started, we have severed the beginnings of dialogue 
out of consideration for the United States." South Koreans have always stressed 
"ethnicity" relative to the unification issue and risk is associated with any 
aggressive move to engage in unification plans. Former President Pak Chong-hui 
felt, "If we give priority to discussions on ethnic unification and reuniting 
separated families, we will face domestic turbulence. Instead, we should delay 
debate on unification, concentrate on building domestic systems, and then 
proceed with unification plans." As a result, North Korea was unable to engage 
in a dialogue offensive with South Korea during the President Pak Chong-hui 
days, while South Korea achieved a high level of economic growth. Kim Tae-chung 
wishes to move aggressively on unification and has assumed a basic stance 
differing from the Pak Chong-hui days. Kim Tae-chung once happened to appear at 
a publishing party for a book on his now deceased political enemy Pak Chong-hui, 
during an election campaign. In reality, Kim Tae-chung's unification policies 
are of a nature that challenge the former Pak Chong-hui administration's 
unification policies.

    When political scholars view Kim Tae-chung administration unification 
policies five years after completion of his presidential tenure, they will 
probably choose one these three descriptions: "an epochal president who 
courageously challenged and altered the existing trend," "a president who made a 
noteworthy move against conservative trends in South Korea, but ultimately 
failed," or "a president who could not achieve his goals, because of an 
unanticipated situation caused by an economic crisis." 

    Will Competition Take Place Between the United States and China?

    After the East-West Cold War ended in Europe, the North Korean nuclear 
weapons development suspicions erupted in North Korea and tensions mounted in 
the Taiwan Strait.    The crisis dealing with the two issues have subsided, but 
this region's situation remains tense owing to North Korea's missile development 
and continuation of military exercises, China's buildup of naval strength and 
missile development, and Russian sales of weapons to China.

    The question is, how is the United States going to respond?

    In the early part of April 1997, US Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen 
addressed a Japanese newspaper by saying, "US Marines stationed on Okinawa will 
not be reduced in the foreseeable future. Even if unification or four-way talks 
on the Korean peninsula are successful, our presence in Japan and Okinawa will 
remain the same." Since the statement was made at a time when the debate on US 
Marines stationed on Okinawa had reached its peak, it had repercussions. Later, 
the secretary altered his statement slightly (in connection with the "US 
Quadrennial Defense Review) by saying, "I meant that troop strength will not be 
changed in the foreseeable future, because timing of unification on the Korean 
peninsula is uncertain."

    However, even if he had intended to say 100,000 US troops would be stationed 
in Northeast Asia even after the unification of the Korean peninsula, there 
would have been nothing novel about his statement. During the past five years, 
the situation concerning North Korea has undergone major changes, such as, North 
Korea's declaration to withdraw from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty (NPT), 
US-North Korea negotiations, approval of framework agreement, commencement of 
light-water reactor supply project, and full-scale implementation of food aid.   
 However, the presence of US Marines on Okinawa and the size of US Forces in 
Japan have not been discussed in coordination with such developments. In other 
words, the raison d'etre of 100,000 troops in Northeast Asia may be linked to 
North Korean trends, but that is not entirely the case. This means that there is 
nothing novel about the statement, "We will maintain the same presence in Japan 
and Okinawa even after unification of the Korean peninsula."    

    The security role to be played by the United States in this region will 
relate to how the United States views the status of future Chinese military 
capabilities. The United States views China as currently undergoing four phases 
of military modernization and does not view China as posing a threat to the 
region (according to Defense Secretary Cohen). It is fact that US-China 
relations have gradually shifted from the cooling off period following the 
Tiananmen Square Incident to a stage of improvement in relations.    However, in 
terms of preparing for a Northeast Asian strategy for the 21st century, US 
policymakers are beginning to use nuances to express concern for Chinese 
military expansion.

    Concurrently, China has begun to issue statements signaling its awareness of 
the existence of the United States in Northeast Asia. It probably would not be 
strange for China to consider Japan, the United States, and a unified Korea as 
obstacles to strengthening China's position in the Northeast Asia region. Since 
the unification of the Korean peninsula will be of significance for China from a 
political, economic, and military perspective, there is the possibility that 
China will object to any continuing relationship of alliance by a unified Korea.

    The Chinese government objected with unusual speed in response to the 
earlier-quoted statement by Defense Secretary Cohen referring to "stationing of 
US troops in post-unified Korea." On 8 April 1997, the Public Affairs Bureau 
chief of the Chinese foreign ministry said, "The Chinese government consistently 
objects to the stationing of foreign troops. The peace and stability of the 
Asian region should be maintained on a joint basis among Asian nations, while 
each nation has the complete capability to do so." That was the first time that 
China clearly said, "Since Asians will provide protection on a joint basis, the 
US military will not be necessary," in connection with US military presence 
after unification of the Korean peninsula.

    A Korean peninsula following unification would have the option of neutrality 
or alliances with China or the United States, but China can be interpreted as 
having stated that it desires that a unified Korea opt for neutrality or an 
alliance with China.

    The existence of an awkward mood between the United States and China in this 
region has been revealed. The reason is that a conflict of interests exists 
concerning the Korean peninsula. The United States continues to maintain a rigid 
stand against such Chinese reactions. US Congressional criticism of human rights 
violations is severe. On 20 January 1998, when Defense Secretary Cohen visited 
China, he was unable to eliminate differences in opinions. On 3 February, 
Defense Secretary Cohen published the 1998 edition of the US Defense report and 
submitted it to President Bill Clinton and Congress.

    The report in referring to China stated, "After 2015, it has the potential 
of becoming a major power competing with the United States." Also, it stated a 
"policy of involvement" was important to encourage China to become involved with 
global society. The defense report states, "Guiding (China) to conform with 
global standards in the areas of weapons exports, trade, and human rights will 
assure future security." Also, it clarified a plan to maintain a 100,000 
military troop presence inclusive of the US Forces in Japan in the East Asian 
region and declared that bilateral alliances with Japan, Australia, and South 
Korea, would serve as centerpieces in achieving East Asian stability and 
economic prosperity.

    At the same time, Chinese Defense Minister Chi Haotian was visiting Japan 
and said during a speech in Tokyo, "Expanding military blocs and boosting 
military alliances under new trends will not be positive for security," making a 
statement attempting to restrain the strengthening of Japan-US relations.

    A variety of changes in the international climate can probably be expected 
in 21st century East Asia, but key to the situation will be the emergence of 
China and the presence of the United States as a regional stabilizing force. In 
such a sense, it would not be an exaggeration to say that the United States and 
China will play a decisive role in 21st century East Asia.

    Continuing Buildup of Chinese Military Power

    Deng Xiaoping, China's most powerful leader, died on 19 February 1997, but 
China has already completed its move to a "post-Deng Xiaoping" structure, while 
the applicable political system was functional and modernization of military 
capabilities has continued after the end of the Cold War. Conspicuous among such 
developments has been missile development and construction of naval strength.    
"China has announced that it is maintaining first and second lines of defense at 
a point 200 and 2,000 kilometers, respectively, from its shores, and is rapidly 
expanding its naval capabilities for that purpose," (Rear Admiral Michael W. 
Cramer, US Navy Joint Staff Director for Intelligence).

    According to a report concerning Chinese military capabilities sent to 
Congress by the US Defense Department in April 1997, China's military strategy 
is to boost defense capabilities in the East coastal region, and will involve 
future possession of submarines, high seas air combat capabilities, and 
ballistic missile warfare capabilities.

    China's missile development and buildup of naval capabilities are having an 
impact on buildup of naval power on the part of surrounding nations. A story 
exists that Taiwan has begun to exercise an interest in building a theater 
missile defense system, in response to China's ballistic missile test firings 
around Taiwan in 1996.    There is the possibility that China's missile 
technology will probably grow further with future assistance from Russia. Even a 
US Defense Department report suggests that as China acquires missile-development 
technology from Russia, it will possess the capability to produce 1,000 
ballistic missiles within 10 years.

    Among countries exercising an interest in such Chinese buildup of naval 
strength is India. Of the two conventional aircraft carriers India now 
possesses, it is confronted with the question of what to do with a second 
carrier, after the first one is retired, owing to operating costs.    However, 
Indian proponents of carrier ownership have taken the position that it cannot be 
retired in view of China's buildup of naval capabilities.

    Also, when China's military buildup progresses smoothly in the future, the 
impact will spread throughout the wide Asia-Pacific region and has begun to lead 
to the view that the developments will affect US interests. If China should 
proceed with the development of the newest next-generation nuclear submarines 
and ballistic missiles to be mounted on such submarines, it will have the 
capability to directly attack the US mainland from its second line of defense 
(maritime zone 2,000 kilometers away from China), states the earlier-quoted US 
Navy intelligence director.    

    Separately, China has acquired a license for the production of Russian 
Suhoy-27 fighter planes. After the arrival of the 21st century, China is 
estimated to be capable of producing 200 Sukhoy-27 fighter planes. China has 
also acquired two submarines from Russia. Russia is an important supplier of 
weapons to China.

    Increasing Importance of Bilateral Relations

    In the future, what sort of direction is desirable in this region in terms 
of cooperative relations?

    When the East-West Cold War ended, debate took place, such as, "The age when 
security was the central issue has ended," "In the Asia-Pacific region, 
multilateral cooperation would be more realistic than bilateral alliances in the 
area of security," and "Japan-US security relations and US-South Korea security 
relations are becoming fixtures of the past."    

    However, from the beginning of the 1990's, competition concerning weapons 
modernization intensified in the Southeast Asian region and surfacing in 
Northeast Asia were North Korean nuclear weapons development suspicions, leading 
to an expansion in instability. When North Korea announced its withdrawal from 
the NPT, global society responded to North Korea's challenge to the nuclear 
nonproliferation system, and came to discuss the dangers of war on the Korean 
peninsula.

    Efforts on the part of concerned countries continued to solve the North 
Korean nuclear issue, but ideas on how to resolve the issues differed among 
concerned nations, such as, Japan, the United States, South Korea, China, and 
Russia, revealing difficulties in reaching early solution of the issue. The 
position taken by the various nations differed on the merits of economic 
sanctions, subtleties of resolutions passed by the UN, the merits of hard-line 
measures against North Korea, and timing of inspections.    In any event, China 
assumed a conspicuously different posture relative to other concerned nations, 
consistently opposing any acceleration of inspections by the International 
Atomic Energy Agency.

    A variety of views exist on how to interpret the Chinese stance. However, 
when one considers the close relations established between China and North Korea 
via subsequent food and oil aid, we can probably assume that, from 1993 to 1994, 
China felt it would be more beneficial to distinguish itself from international 
pressure being exerted on North Korea.

    The United States initiated talks with North Korea, immediately after the 
latter's announcement of its withdrawal from the NPT. After the commencement of 
the first US-North Korea talks in June 1993, a US-North Korea agreement was 
signed in October 1994. The United States thus played a central role and Japan 
and South Korea participated in a supporting role to pave the way to provide 
North Korea with a light-water reactor. It was in such a manner that, while 
facing the possibility of a Korean peninsula emergency, a policy was established 
to continue involvement with North Korea, while striving for greater improvement 
in US-North Korea relations and strengthening of Japan-US and US-South Korea 
security relations.

    Developments wherein the United States exercises leadership and Japan and 
South Korea collaborate in the process of forming a framework for resolution of 
the nuclear suspicion issue with North Korea can be construed as being typical 
of global relations following the end to the Cold War. In other words, amidst 
developments, such as, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction by North 
Korea, declining influence of China and Russia on North Korea, and efforts at 
multinational collaboration (such as, Japan-US-South Korea policy collaboration 
and initiation of KEDO), US leadership in problem resolution has become 
important and the role of bilateral relations, such as, Japan-US and US-South 
Korea has been substantial.    

    Compelling Desire to Eliminate Misunderstandings Concerning Japan

    At issue here is the role to be played by Japan.

    Japan's stance on the unification issue is misunderstood. Criticism solely 
from North Korea, alleging, "Japan opposes unification and is benefiting from 
the split," can be understood, but we occasionally encounter the same sort of 
criticism from our supposed friend South Korea. As Japanese, we can only 
describe this situation as being "regrettable."

    Above all, criticism of that nature concerning Japan are factually mistaken. 
As a basis for such criticism of Japan, it is routine to present the reasoning 
that "A unified Korea will be economically powerful. Japan, which even now 
assumes a cautious stance concerning the South Korean economy, fears the arrival 
of a unified Korea." However, this position is clearly odd.

    Let us make a comparison with the unification of East and West Germany. 

    Before the unification, surrounding nations assumed a cautious stance 
saying, Germany may reign over Europe as a superpower. A unified Germany 
definitely became Europe's leading major economic power, but the situation has 
not developed into the type of situation foreseen. Rather, the costs of 
unification have caused an economic decline in the former West German zone. 
Similarly, even if unification of South and North Korea is realized, a unified 
Korean economy will probably face persistent difficulty with costs reaching 
anywhere from $500 billion to $2 trillion. Based on the German experience, there 
would be no logic in saying "We do not look forward to unification, because of 
an economic threat."

    Moreover, both the "Korean economic threat theory" and "desire for split 
theory" are nothing more than myths for Japanese, while discussions of that 
nature have never taken place in Japan. Moreover, the potential of a unified 
German economy is huge and ranks first in Europe, but a unified Korea could not 
achieve a prominent position in Northeast Asia comparable to that of Germany in 
Europe. Basically, the above argument is irrational from the very outset.

    Another interpretation is that "North-South unification will lead to a 
formidable military power. Japan fears this possible outcome." Undoubtedly, as 
shown in the following table, the military strength of a unified Korea will be 
significant. According to calculations based on a table titled, "World Defense 
Spending Rankings" furnished by the US Defense Department's Defense Threat 
Reduction Agency, defense spending by a unified Korea would outrank Saudi Arabia 
and will command ninth place on a global basis, while troop strength would 
outrank the United Sates and would command second place behind China. 1994 
      Defense Spending North-South Total1995 Troop StrengthNorth-South Total
      South Korea$15.5 billion$20.9 billion622,0001.727 million
      North Korea$5.6 billion1.055 million
            

    However, it will not become a case where 1 plus 1 equals 2. Once the Korean 
peninsula is unified, most of the troop strength and arms will become surplus, 
and military strength of a unified Korea will probably fall below one-half of 
the figures shown above. The current troop strength of 1.72 million is required 
only because the peninsula is split in two, and will become surplus once 
unification takes place. Defense spending can also be reduced.    Accordingly, 
unless a unified Korea treats Japan and China as virtual enemies and renews its 
effort at military expansion, there is no way in which it could become a 
military threat. Moreover, South Korea and North Korea maintain different 
weapons systems. There is the potential of a huge degradation in combat 
capabilities if US-made and US-type equipment held by South Korea and former 
Soviet and Chinese equipment of North Korea, produced under licenses, are 
combined.

    Thirdly, allegedly, "If a unified Korea appears, Japan will no longer be a 
prominent political entity in the Northeast Asian region. Japan will probably 
not desire such an outcome." However, such a development would be most welcome 
by Japan. Above all, with the appearance of a unified Korea, criticism of Japan 
as a prominent political existence will diminish. It will become a case where a 
unified Korea, China, and Japan can form a reciprocally supplementary 
relationship. It is not beneficial for the peace and stability for Japan to be 
prominent in the region.

    To be mentioned here is that one of Japan's diplomatic agenda items has been 
the normalization of Japan-North Korea relations. These difficult normalization 
talks would probably become a lot easier for peaceful unification should lead to 
a reduction of tensions on the Korean peninsula. Since Japan-North Korea 
negotiations deal with demands of residents in the northern half of a unified 
Korea, they should become a lot easier to handle than would be the case under a 
split Korea.

    When the foregoing facts are considered, unification of the Korean peninsula 
should be welcomed from the standpoint of Japanese national interests.

    Unmistakably, difficult issues have mounted in anticipation of and time will 
still be required for peaceful unification on the Korean peninsula. In the 
interim, there is a need for cautious preparations for the sake of reduction in 
tensions, and need exists for maintenance of restraints and a search for 
dialogue to avoid armed clashes.

    Moreover, reciprocal trust, especially trust in the area of military 
affairs, is desirable and should be aggressively maintained by advance 
notification of military exercises, mutual attendance at military exercises, and 
official release of statistics and locations of military units between the South 
and North. It is important that such developments are supported by surrounding 
countries.    Such being the case, Japan would like to avoid mislabeling as 
being "in favor of a permanent split."

    Concurrently, determining the stature of a unified Korea will be its 70 
million people, but Japan must not remain an idle bystander relative to the 
process of unification if Japan is to build a relationship of co-existence with 
a unified Korea. The question concerns the role to be played by Japan.

    There is a history of the past concerning relations between the Korean 
peninsula and Japan and all Japanese explanations and strategic discussions 
invite suspicions on the part of the people of the Korean peninsula. Routinely 
emerging are allegations that Japan is trying to make a peninsula split a 
permanent arrangement or that Japan is trying to take advantage of a unified 
Korea via economic incursions.

    Surprisingly, it is probably the Korean peninsula itself that views Japan's 
role as being substantial. The argument that Japan's potential role is large 
exists, considering North Korea's major expectations addressed at Japan, the 
existence of Japan-North Korea talks, and the lack of any military restrictions 
unlike the United States with its US forces in Korea. The question is, what kind 
of role can Japan play on the Korean peninsula?

    People on the Korean peninsula have a tendency to overestimate Japan. 
Concerning defense issues, I heard such stories in South Korea as, "Japan excels 
in technology and can rapidly convert Aegis destroyers into aircraft carriers" 
and, "If Japan is faced with a crisis, it is of a nature that can form a 
consensus for easily discarding a variety of defense policy restrictions (such 
as, civilian control, three principles concerning weapons, and the three 
principles concerning nuclear weapons)." Some South Koreans even went to the 
extent of making deductions saying, "Japanese weapons are modest in comparison 
to their defense outlays. This means that they possess and have concealed some 
sort of deadly weapons." These stories reflect misunderstandings based on a kind 
of overestimation of Japanese capabilities.

    Koreans, who overestimate Japan, think that Japan's role is large. Both 
South and North Korea have a tendency to place a high assessment on a potential 
role by Japan, with North Korea feeling that way about diplomatic normalization 
talks and KEDO, while South Korea feels that way about financial support.

    However, even if Japan were to assume a major role, its options are limited. 
Japan faces pressure from both South and North Korea and when friction arises 
between the United States and South Korea, if Japan opts to side with the United 
States, South Korea becomes suspicious. If Japan speaks on the behalf of South 
Korea, the United States will challenge Japan about the importance of Japan-US 
relations. Under current conditions, Japan's policy options are limited.

    Significance of New Guidelines and Japanese Issues

    Among important things that Japan can do for the Korean peninsula is an 
indirect matter. For example, by reinforcing Japan-US relations, Japan can boost 
the stability of the region and improve the environment for dialogue and 
unification on the Korean peninsula.

    During the recent several years, Japan-US security relations have assumed a 
smooth course, and the last year has seen significant improvements, which were 
solidified in an announcement of the Japan-US New Defense Cooperation Guidelines 
(New Guidelines). On 23 September 1997, in New York, a Japan-US Security 
Consultation Committee meeting was held, where the new guidelines were approved, 
and work on review of guidelines for Japan-US defense cooperation was completed.

    During the past three years, Japan and the United States have undergone an 
unprecedented honeymoon period. In 1995, the US Defense Department issued a 
"East Asia Strategy Report." The report clarified that a basic strategy of the 
United States was to reconfirm the importance of the Japan-US alliance in the 
East Asian region. In April 1996, the following year, Prime Minister Hashimoto 
and President Clinton announced a Joint Japan-US Security Declaration, leading 
to new guidelines, issued in September 1997, visualizing emergency situations 
surrounding Japan. In comparison to the constant potential for rekindling of 
economic friction between Japan and the United States, it can be said that Japan 
and the United States have expanded commonality of perceptions concerning their 
security relations on an unprecedented scale.

    The question is, what is the significance of the new guidelines? First, 
Japan and the United States in the Asia-Pacific region share common interests, 
have promoted defense collaboration for the sake of peace and stability, and 
have declared they must boost their relations concerning alliance. Also, having 
clarified the need to boost clarity in Japan's role, it was important to have 
brought transparency to Japan-US alliance relationships and Japan's role itself. 


    Secondly, the new guidelines visualize situations (emergency situations) 
surrounding Japan. The fact that the guidelines clarified the sharing of 
perceptions on the part of Japan and the United States that issues involving the 
security of Japan could occur in the Northeast Asia region, based on 
destabilizing critical factors differing from those in Europe, will probably be 
important in achieving Japan-US collaboration in the future.

    Thirdly, in preparing the new guidelines, we can probably mention modest, 
but extensive understanding on the part of South Korea concerning the boosting 
of Japan-US relations since 1996.

    Problem Points With New Guidelines

    However, many domestic and foreign experts mention future problems 
associated with the new guidelines. A typical view is, "The new guidelines do 
not visualize combat actions outside of Japanese territory. When visualizing 
actions in areas surrounding Japan, one is confronted with the issue of 
constitutional amendments, but no thought has been given to such amendments. No 
provisions have been made for guidelines concerning military cooperation in 
connection with crises. Such deficiencies will cause delays in extending support 
to the US military because of Japanese domestic circumstances and could possibly 
lead to US public discontent with Japanese responses," is the view expressed (by 
former US Assistant Secretary of Defense Joseph Nye).

    Unmistakably, the common view in the United States is that "Alliance 
treaties impose equal burdens on both parties," and the view exists that 
emergencies will lead to the expectation that Japan will engage in combat 
actions during emergencies. Also, many experts mention that the absence of 
sufficient understanding on the part of the US public on what Japan can and 
cannot do in a real emergency surrounding Japan could lead to friction in 
Japanese-US relations.

    In this respect, the question is, just how far can Japan go in dealing with 
emergencies? Will we see the smooth passage of legislation to deal with 
situations surrounding Japan as well as revisions to related laws? It appears 
that laws applicable to a situation involving a direct attack and creating a 
"Japanese emergency" are inadequate. In such a respect, many questions have been 
posed concerning the details of the new guidelines.

    New Guidelines and South Korea

    Ever since the "Hashimoto-Clinton Joint Statement," South Korea's official 
views on Japan-US security collaboration have been of an affirmative nature. 
(Then) South Korean Foreign Minister Gong Ro-myong issued an official statement 
welcoming the joint statement. Even when an interim report was published on the 
new guidelines in 1997, the South Korean Ministries of Foreign Affairs and 
National Defense issued comments that they approved of the interim report. They 
also issued similar comments on the New Guidelines.

    Recently, South Korean experts have said, "South Korea will not object to 
aircraft of Japan's Air Self-Defense Force coming to South Korea to rescue 
Japanese citizens in the event of an emergency," "we have a need to consider 
cooperation of Japanese minesweepers on the high seas in the event of an 
emergency," and "one plan could involve the cooperation of Northeast Asian 
nations in connection with sea movement of radiation waste materials to be 
reprocessed."

    Needless to say, it is a fact that South Korean mass media and experts have 
expressed the view that "A boost in Japan-US security relations leads to 
military expansion on the part of Japan." However, when it comes to diplomacy 
and security policy relative to Japan, we can say there has been a gradual 
change.

    The question is, why is this sort of change in attitude taking place on the 
part of South Korea? First, South Korea is still faced with a threat from North 
Korea and feels it would like to strengthen its security ties with the United 
States. In this connection, the realistic view has been spreading in South Korea 
that Japan-US collaboration contributes to South Korean security and augments 
the US-South Korea alliance. The view that "Japan-US security collaboration 
contributes to South Korean security" probably relates to the fear over a 
possible influx of refugees resulting from a collapse in North Korea and fear 
over North Korea's continuing development of missiles.    

    Secondly, South Korean defense policy in recent years has embraced new 
critical factors, such as, improvement in naval capabilities and diversification 
of exchange programs. In the area of security concerning the high seas, when 
they visualize the commonality of conditions faced by Japan and South Korea, 
they probably feel that promoting Japan-South Korea exchanges, while proceeding 
with Japan-US-South Korea dialogue, will have a positive effect on the growth of 
South Korean defense capabilities.

    Thirdly, it can probably be said that changes in South Korean attitudes 
towards the new guidelines have come about as a result of advances in nurturing 
trust in the security sector between Japan and South Korea in connection with 
coordination and exchange of views between Japan, the United States, and South 
Korea on the disposition of nuclear suspicions concerning North Korea.

    Consideration of the preceding factors illustrates many advantages 
concerning Japan-US-South Korea security dialogue.

    Realistically, the effects of this collaboration are immense. During any 
unification of the Korean peninsula, they should contribute to efficient crisis 
management on the Korean peninsula. They should reinforce Japan-US and US-South 
Korea alliances. They should contribute to the Clinton administration's policy 
of providing a soft landing for North Korea. They should contribute to forming a 
consensus in Japan-US-South Korea perceptions. Moreover, they should contribute 
to an agreement in perception among the three nations relative to the "China 
issue."

    Also, after unification of the Korean peninsula, the collaboration should 
contribute to dedication of economic construction under a stable, unified Korea. 
Moreover, it can serve as a basis for commencing a regional, multilateral 
security dialogue after unification and contribute to the realization of a 
stable five-nation (Russia, United States, China, a unified Korea, and Japan) 
structure for Northeast Asia.

    We probably need to see progress on a Japan-US-South Korea dialogue, in 
consideration of these factors.
