Japan: Diet Member Suematsu Blasts Koizumi Over North Korean Missile Issue

    On 9 May 2002, during a session of the "Special Committee Concerning Actions 
Dealing with Military Attack Situations," I asked Prime Minister Koizumi, "What 
sort of action would we take under the (currently proposed) Emergency Law if a 
North Korean nuclear missile were to strike?"

    His reply was, "We are speaking of a hypothetical case and it is very 
difficult to say so, but the legislation we are now deliberating does not 
visualize such a situation (where a missile flies in), but situations which 
transcend such circumstances.   In reality, I would say we could not take action 
until after we suffered an initial strike."   In other words, he stated that he 
had no intention of taking any action until after our beloved, beautiful country 
of Japan and the Japanese ethnic group [Nihon minzoku] suffer destructive 
casualties.

    In reality, just prior to the foregoing interpellation session, I had posed 
a question about the 9.11 terrorist attacks.   I had asked, "Should we not 
compile a manual providing for the shooting down of a hijacked civilian aircraft 
in Japan if we were suddenly confronted with intelligence that the aircraft had 
a very high probability of crashing into leadership [word in English] areas, 
such as the Prime Minister's Official Residence, the Diet, or Kasumigaseki; an 
economic center, like Marunouchi; or an entertainment district, like Shinjuku or 
Shibuya?"   I did so because I wanted to confirm the prime minister's resolute 
determination on the issue.

    I was addressing a matter that makes individuals shudder, but I did so 
because, as Japan's leader, he is responsible for preventing large-scale 
disasters associated with the operation of airlines inclusive of passengers.   
In reality, in the United States, the multiple, simultaneous terrorist attacks 
prompted the president to start making final decisions concerning matters of 
this nature.   Moreover, when time restrictions do not permit presidential 
decisions, authority has been delegated to the area Air Force commander to make 
any necessary decisions.   A manual has reportedly been issued to cover 
procedures for arrival at a shoot-down decision.

    However, Prime Minister Koizumi's reply to the foregoing question during the 
interpellation session was pathetic.

    "If such intelligence were received, even if I were to visualize shooting 
down the hijacked aircraft, but knowing that I would not want to do so, even 
when faced with such a situation, I probably would not be able to shoot it down. 
  I could not do so until it had caused an incident.   Candidly speaking, I 
believe I could not take any action until after the incident occurred and had an 
opportunity to determine the circumstances."

    The foregoing question and answer were introduced by the newspapers at the 
time as a dispute over "ultimate decisions."   However, at that time, I became a 
bit scared and thought, "The position taken is that we will consider what action 
to take after we passively monitor the killing of our own citizens.   If a 
single nuclear missile from North Korea should strike Tokyo, we would suffer the 
instantaneous, complete destruction of the Diet and Imperial Palace along with 
the death of our leader responsible for Japanese policy decisions.   The 
question is, who will be left to consider actions to be taken.   The response 
given by the prime minister is literally one which could be expected only from 
someone who is totally ignorant of crisis management principles."

    It is such a flippant leader who has submitted emergency legislation under 
the repeatedly mentioned topic of crisis management.   Notwithstanding, no 
measure has been devised nor has a legal framework been developed to deal with 
the presently most probable danger of a nuclear missile or missile armed with a 
biological warhead flying in from North Korea.   The question is, how should we 
describe a cabinet of this nature?

    During the 24 January Budget Committee session, although this was being 
disrespectful, I carelessly referred to the prime minister as "Prime Minister 
Bell Pepper," or "Mr. Bell Pepper."   He recites words as if he were giving a 
sermon, but he is much like a bell pepper with no substance inside.   When it is 
mentioned that he is speaking meaningless words, he continues to persist in 
chanting empty words.   This is the reality of Mr. Bell Pepper.

   Director General Ishiba Changes Suddenly

    Can we afford to rely on this Prime Minister Bell Pepper to defend the lives 
and property of our fellow Japanese citizens and the beautiful country of Japan? 
  I believe this sentiment is applicable to myself as well as many members of 
the public.   Guffaws emitted by high-level US government officials and 
government sources in other countries were impressive, when I quoted to them the 
prime minister's statements about, "Considering a situation after the first 
attack" and "(hijacked planes) cannot be shot down."

    Nine months after such statements, during the recent Budget Committee 
session of 24 January, I presented a similar question to Defense Agency Director 
General Shigeru Ishiba, well-known as a defense expert ... [ellipsis as 
published].   Do we have any plans for dealing with a North Korean nuclear 
missile attack? ... [ellipsis as published].

    However, Director General Ishiba, while calling missile defense a purely 
defensive matter, limited his response during the interpellation session to 
noncommittal remarks, saying, "Would such plans be legally possible?   I believe 
we must engage in a thorough discussion of how effective such plans would be, 
while being mindful of the facts pertaining to missile proliferation."

    At that point, I pursued the matter further, saying, "I see that no progress 
has been made whatsoever.   However, Mr. Ishiba.   During the 16 May 2002 
session of the Special Committee on Military Attack Situations, you yourself 
posed a similar question.   After listening to then-Defense Agency Director 
General Gen Nakatani during an interpellation session, you sarcastically stated 
during your questioning, 'We have repeatedly heard for as many as five years 
statements by the government that "it is assiduously engaged in a study of the 
legal framework."'"

    "In essence, the same situation (is being repeated).   (When you were a 
member of the Special Committee on Military Attack Situations), you insisted on 
reaching quick (completion) of the project, but does this mean that, now that 
you are the Defense Agency director general, the project is going to be 
abandoned?   Don't you think that would be odd?   The public that (may) die or 
may suffer casualties is truly concerned.   Are you not responsible for 
considering such matters?"

    Basically, no progress has been made.   Ten years have passed since the 
launching of the No Dong from North Korea in 1993.   The "lost 10 years" has not 
been limited to the economy, but is also applicable to defense.   And, it has 
been five years since the launching of the Taepo Dong in 1998 and 18 months 
since the 9.11 terrorist attack.   Essentially, the administration has not 
reached any tangible decisions.   Realizing that no progress can be made under 
such circumstances, I raised my voice in saying, "Until when are you going to 
debate the issue of legislation?"   If we persist with the current lackadaisical 
approach, it might take us another 10 years.   Where else in the world can you 
find a government that continues with extremely stupid discussions and fails to 
embrace the issue with seriousness in the face of a fast-approaching North 
Korean nuclear missile crisis?

    Additionally, I asked Foreign Minister Yoriko Kawaguchi, "Would it be 
possible to ask the United States, 'Could you attack this installation?' under 
the Japan-US Security Treaty when the danger is high and the ultimate risk is 
imminent of a missile launching from North Korea?"

    In response, Foreign Minister Kawaguchi replied, "The United States would 
comply with (security) treaty provisions calling for the defense of our nation 
and would act jointly," providing an equivocal response.   I then pursued the 
matter further, saying, "Can or can't Japan place such a request?   Please make 
yourself clear."   She failed to clarify herself any further.   We Japanese 
people have signed the Japan-US Security Treaty, provided installations, and 
invested heavily for the sole purpose of having the United States defend Japan.  
 Japan has complied with "almost all US government wishes" in approving generous 
annual "compassionate budgets."

    However, it appears we face a situation in which when faced with an 
emergency we will not be able to ask the United States, "Since Japan faces a 
dangerous situation, please attack a North Korean missile base."   If we cannot 
place such a request, it would be logical to assert that no other government or 
country exists which is so stupid.

    Current Japanese Self-Defense capabilities are not adequate to strike North 
Korean missile bases.   Such being the case, we have no choice but to rely on 
the United States.   Thus, I inquired, "Can Japan ask the United States?" but 
the response was an inability to provide a clear-cut reply.   Having become 
impatient with the foreign minister, I vented my frustration by saying, "You 
should resign your position as foreign minister!"   I would imagine Kawaguchi's 
position is:

    "Since the Japan-US Security Treaty obligates the United States to defend 
Japan, even if Japan does not ask or if a request were placed confidentially, 
the United States would probably take the initiative to strike ballistic missile 
bases.   However, such a response in the Diet would get us caught up in a debate 
on the security treaty and the constitution.   Therefore, it would be better not 
to do so ... [ellipsis as published]."

    However, what does it mean for the public if the government cannot clarify 
an issue of this nature?   Questions erupt steadily.   [Officials]
display concern for their personal statures, but I see no willingness to protect 
citizen lives.   In fact, I would rather have them say, "We can justifiably 
place such a request.   If we did not do so, the beautiful Japanese country and 
cherished Japanese people would suffer greatly.   There is no way that I as 
foreign minister could overlook such an outrageous situation!"   Then, I would 
have displayed my respect by responding, "That's a display of commendable 
motivation.   Please proceed with enthusiasm!"

    Similarly, when I converse with officials of the government and Defense 
Agency bureaus, I always feel, "They visualize themselves as going to the 
battlefield with the "Collection of Six Major Laws" in hand.   Before they fight 
the enemy, they struggle with the Collection of Six Major Laws.   It appears the 
public's lives are a secondary matter.   And, when the government evaluates 
them, it is not a case of measuring how they defend themselves against the 
enemy, but checking to see how well they complied with the provisions of the 
Collection of Six Major Laws."   I wonder if I am the only one who senses the 
existence of such an odd trend?

    North Korea is a dangerous "power-worshipping state"

    The nation called North Korea, which is producing many defectors and much 
starvation, treats public welfare as a secondary matter.   We cannot deny the 
impression that it embraces a political system emphasizing military might as a 
worshipper of power under totalitarian rule to solidify the Kim Chong-il regime. 
  Historically speaking, countries of this nature have a tendency to give 
highest priority to military capabilities and to resort to trumpeting of power 
and threats as a means to manage diplomatic affairs.   And, as a means of 
marshaling public emotions, they have a proclivity for creating a virtual 
foreign enemy.

    And, under current conditions, it appears to maintain a very strong 
cautionary and apprehensive stance towards the move to deliberate the North 
Korean nuclear issue in the UN Security Council.   The reason is that in 
bilateral talks with the United States, it can take advantage of US 
vulnerabilities and vested interests to engage in diplomatic bargaining.   
However, at the Security Council, which is a multinational forum, this 
bargaining approach is not available and North Korea runs the high risk of being 
put at an unpredictable disadvantage.   Especially, in recent days, the 
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) has reported to the Security Council 
on nuclear development after North Korea's withdrawal from the Nuclear 
Nonproliferation Treaty (NPT).   There the matter is to be debated and the 
possibility exists that North Korea may be confirmed as a threat to regional 
peace and stability.   Such being the case, it is probable that severe sanctions 
will be adopted by the Security Council in the future.   North Korea will 
probably react violently to such moves at any moment, and, especially with 
respect to Japan and South Korea, which are fearful of regional tensions, it 
will incite public fear and will undoubtedly stir up turmoil over political and 
military issues.   Specifically, stepped up test firings of No Dong and Taepo 
Dong missiles aimed in the direction of Japan and South Korea are conceivable.

    Now, the question is, if North Korean No Dong and Taepo Dong missiles are 
launched in the direction of Japan, will Japan be safe?

    If I may speak in terms of a conclusion, if a ballistic missile were to fly 
in from North Korea, intercepting it would be virtually impossible.   In other 
words, we would be helpless.   The Defense Agency director general agrees with 
this point.

    I will now explain how difficult it is to respond to a ballistic missile 
crisis ... [ellipsis as published].

    To begin with, the exercise of self-defense rights requires an especially 
circumspect response and compliance with strict approved procedures.   We cannot 
assume a missile interception posture purely on the basis of the fear of an 
incoming North Korea ballistic missile.   The exercise of self-defense rights, 
needless to say, requires compliance with three essential factors; i.e., (1) 
Imminent, unjustified invasion, (2) A lack of any other preventive means, (3) 
Exercise of essential, minimal response.

    Such being the case, the first step to be taken is to confirm the existence 
of an imminent, unjustified invasion.   For example, North Korea initially 
officially announces "it will convert various cities such as Tokyo into seas of 
fire."   Or, there is the need to assume objectively that acceleration of 
ominous moves on the part of North Korea indicates the high probability of an 
attack on Japan.   The existence of such threats leads to the confirmation that 
North Korea has "initiated an attack" on Japan.

   The United States possesses the capability of capturing such intelligence 
most expeditiously in this world.   US early warning satellites maintain 
constant surveillance, but any North Korean ballistic missile launch reportedly 
takes about one minute after takeoff for detection.   Moreover, the intelligence 
undergoes some confirmation procedures and then is transmitted from the United 
States to the Japanese Prime Minister's Official Residence.   This particular 
aspect was explained in detail by witness Kensuke Ebata, military expert, during 
a Lower House Foreign Affairs Committee session in December 2002.   For example, 
during the No Dong firing in 1993, it took an alarming three days because the 
intelligence was routed through Japan-US diplomatic channels.   Later, 
procedures were improved.   The intelligence now goes from the US Defense 
Department to the US Pacific Command, to Yokota, to the Defense Agency, and then 
to the Prime Minister's Official Residence, but it still takes a total of 40 
minutes.   Moreover, in 1998, when the Taepo Dong was launched, Ebata's 
testimony, accurately quoted, was, "They say it was a Maritime Self-Defense 
Force Aegis destroyer that single-handedly tracked the missile.   It was a case 
of assuming that it was about time for the missile to fly over the area and 
assuming that they were tracking the missile because it just happened to fly 
over.   If I say so the Maritime Self-Defense Force may take umbrage, but, 
frankly speaking, I speak on an accountable basis and say that the tracking took 
place under such circumstances.   Most likely, if they had assumed a stupefied 
stance, they probably would have not caught sight of the missile as it whizzed 
overhead.   It is possible to engage in such tracking, but to do so we would 
have to upgrade our radar systems and adopt specialized software.   Such a 
system, known as the Sea-Based Mid-Term Defense System, is being worked on 
jointly with the United States, but unless our current systems are modified to 
meet such capabilities, we are unable to actively detect and track incoming 
missiles.   In fact, interception capabilities are currently nonexistent."

    In other words, we have no feasible technology and exist in a hopeless 
state.   And, according to Ebata, Israel has reportedly developed an independent 
defense system known as the Arrow Missile Interceptor System, using US early 
warning satellite data on a real-time (one-minute) basis to enable them to 
intercept missiles.

    However, since North Korean ballistic missiles can reach Japan in about 
seven minutes, crisis management manuals previously developed are useless.   
Moreover, an even more frustrating matter is that PAC-2 missile interceptor 
systems currently deployed in Japan are, in reality, incapable of intercepting 
No Dong or Taepo Dong missiles.   The reason is that when ballistic missiles 
descend, they travel at supersonic speeds of about eight to 10 mach.   They say 
shooting down a missile traveling that fast would be "more difficult than 
shooting down a pistol bullet with a pistol bullet."   Thus, in order to shoot 
down a missile, the approach of shooting down the missile during the first phase 
of its launch before it accelerates is being debated.   That means shooting down 
a missile within one to two minutes after it is launched into orbit.   That 
means one must execute an interceptor missile launch concurrent with the receipt 
of incoming missile launch data.   Such being the case, it is only reasonable 
that the Diet interpellation sessions discussed at the beginning of this article 
bring desperate remarks like, "Japan has no choice but to surrender!"

    Cabinet Legislation Bureau has made progress

    A matter which I keenly sensed as a result of debate in the current session 
of the Diet is that there is a lack of pluck and spirit on the part of cabinet 
members, including the Defense Agency director general, to enthusiastically 
defend the lives, property, and nation of Japan.

    As previously stated, I have become frustrated with cabinets over the years 
which have engaged in useless debate and failed to arrive at decisions.   When I 
approached Defense Agency Director General Ishiba by saying, "You speak of 
considering the matter, but when do you intend to arrive at decisions?   One 
year has passed since government-proposed legislation, visualizing emergencies, 
has been submitted.   How long must we wait?   It's time for you to specify a 
deadline!"   The director general responded by saying, "I would like for you to 
present Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ) ideas or your thoughts on what you think 
about the Japan-US Security Treaty and the maintenance and legal framework of 
capabilities to attack enemy territory ... [ellipsis as published].   We need to 
hear your arguments during Diet sessions ... [ellipsis as published]."   He then 
added, "We as an organization and in view of democratic principles cannot allow 
the Defense Agency director general to make arbitrary decisions   ... [ellipsis 
as published]."   He thus engaged in a verbose citation of excuses.

    The impression that I got from what might be termed an arrogant 
interpellation-session response on the part of the director general is that he 
did not wish to split the DPJ on the security issue (actually, the DPJ itself 
has not reached a consensus on the missile defense sector).   In fact, I felt he 
had a strong desire to collaborate with the opposition party DPJ in recording a 
majority vote in the Diet in favor of the ballistic missile crisis management 
system.

    However, he cannot take such an optimistic approach.   In reality, the 
opposition party is after all an opposition party.   It is the opposition 
party's job to assert opposition party logic and attack mistaken or inadequate 
aspects of the government.   Moreover, the overall issue discussed herein is 
probably subject to a variety of significant criticisms and assertions from 
various sources.   And, amid such developments, we would be helpless unless we 
possessed the spirit to take the initiative and persistently assert to the 
public, "This is the proper path we are going to assume!" in defending this 
beautiful country and people.   If they assume the initial stance of accepting 
and compromising with opposition party views, it would certainly be a case of 
cabinet abandonment of accountability.   Essentially, they lack the resolute 
resolve to assume leadership and make an all-out effort.   Even if the Koizumi 
cabinet speaks of economic structural reform being of the highest priority, it 
cannot stand idly by in the face of a North Korean nuclear missile threat.   As 
I will mention later, they should dedicate themselves to developing a cabinet 
proposal for a "Strategic Plan to Defend Against a Ballistic Missile Crises" to 
defend the people.   I am upset over the selfishness and lack of courage on the 
part of the Koizumi cabinet.   I fail to sense any keen concern on the part of 
the top leader.   And, his excessively easy-going approach makes him vulnerable 
to foreign countries.   He should issue a message of resolute resolve saying 
that Japan will clearly "not condone an attack on Japan in the form of nuclear 
missiles."   And, such resolve should be clearly converted into a missile crisis 
response policy.   Such resolute resolve will cause the enemy to weaken and 
terrorists to become demoralized.

    By the way, instead of thinking in terms of waiting idly by for the enemy to 
attack, I would like to discuss the issue of whether preemptive strikes are 
possible for the sake of self-defense.   I will first explain the legal issues.

    In 1956, the then-Prime Minister Ichiro Hatoyama issued a joint opinion on 
the scope of strikes on enemy bases and self-defense reading, "I believe 
striking guided missile bases (as long as critical factors concerning 
self-defense are satisfied) falls within the scope of self-defense legally and 
should be considered possible."   This was a famous interpretation of the 
constitution saying, "We will not sit idly by relative to our own 
self-destruction."   However, ballistic missile attacks were realistically 
thought to be unlikely.   And, in 1959, Defense Agency Director General 
Shigejiro Ino issued an interpretation which read, "Possession by Japan of a 
weapon that can strike enemy territory would be a violation of the 
constitution."

    In the meantime, in the past, the Cabinet Legislation Bureau had furnished 
the opinion that "interception of missiles at the time of launching would be 
difficult" from the standpoint of collective self-defense being prohibited by 
the constitution.   Specifically, the bureau was of the opinion that "we cannot 
shoot down a missile when it is launched because we would not know if it is 
aimed at Japan or some other country.   (It appears that the bureau was of the 
opinion that if the missile were aimed at a country other than Japan and Japan 
shot the missile down, the act would constitute collective self-defense).

    I can acknowledge the fact that there was little sense of reality in the 
possibility of a nuclear missile landing on Japan in 1959, but I can only say 
that the opinion of the Cabinet Legislation bureau is based on strange logic.

    Allow me to expand on this opinion.   Even if the first missile were to land 
on Japan, we face a situation wherein we cannot determine if the second missile 
was aimed at Japan or some other nation until it reached   our territorial 
skies.   However, if the position is that we cannot shoot down a high-speed 
missile until it reaches our territorial air, it will be totally impossible to 
shoot down the missile regardless of how advanced the interceptor weapon might 
be.   Moreover, even if the second missile strikes Japan, it will be a case 
where we cannot strike down a possible third missile ... [ellipsis as 
published], if we do not know whether it is destined for Japan.   Arguments of 
the Cabinet Legislation Bureau in the past were of such a stupid nature.

    I had thought of thoroughly pursuing the above issue during the recent Diet 
session, but was pleasantly surprised by an unexpected development.   During the 
earlier-mentioned Budget Committee session, Cabinet Legislation Bureau Director 
General Osamu Akiyama acknowledged the "probability theory."   In other words, 
he assumed the position that, if the probability were high that Japan would be 
attacked by missiles, the missiles can be shot down as a matter of self-defense. 
  ("Although a final decision has not been made on this matter, when it is 
determined that a very high probability exists that a missile will target Japan, 
[such shooting down] will be recognized as an act of self-defense.")

    This positive interpellation session, which was more positive than anything 
in the past, made matters more logical.   Further, Defense Agency Director 
General Ishiba stated, "When [North Korea] speaks of converting Tokyo into a sea 
of flames and begins to load fuel on a missile and prepares for a launch, it 
could be construed as undertaking preparations for (an armed attack)."   He 
expressed the opinion that when preparations are undertaken such as the loading 
of fuel on missiles with the purpose of attacking Japan, it would be legally 
possible to attack a North Korean missile base in self-defense even before the 
launch takes place.   I agree wholeheartedly with that position.

    In the future, legal responses to such situations on the part of Japan 
should be properly covered by legislation such as that concerning emergencies.   
I say so because the emergency legislation currently proposed by the government 
is based on outdated warfare going back 50 years and covers little in the way of 
21st century warfare, such as, ballistic missiles, terrorist operations, and 
armed spy vessels.   This condition must be construed as a major deficiency 
along with the absence of provisions for extending first priority to the 
protection of citizen lives.

    Collective Defense System

    In the United States as well, in September 2002 President George W. Bush 
announced a New Defense Concept, justifying preemptive strikes under a certain 
set of critical factors.   There are some signs that government officials have 
lost their sanity owing to the eruption of the US simultaneous, multiple terror 
attacks.   However, if we visualize keenly the tremendous casualties that can be 
suffered by a single blow by weapons of mass destruction, it is only natural to 
think in terms of preventing massive casualties via preemptive strikes.

    However, when the United States, with the world's largest collection of 
weapons, speaks of preemptive strikes, it prompts caution, uneasiness, and 
suspicion on the part of other countries.   Countries at odds with the United 
States must be shaking in their boots.   It is only natural that differences in 
response exist between our nation, which has sworn itself to non-belligerency 
and the United States, which has experienced a number of wars since its 
independence and is now about to launch another war.   However, if it becomes a 
case of a missile attack with warheads consisting of weapons of mass destruction 
by a belligerent (whether it be a nation or terrorists), defensive measures to 
be taken by the United States and Japan under such threats would probably differ 
little.   The reason is that it is only natural for government officials to 
think in terms of avoiding massive casualties from a single blow by weapons of 
mass destruction.

    At this point, once preparations are completed to enable a legal response, 
there remains the question of making a political decision on just how much of a 
missile crisis response capability Japan should maintain.   Needless to say, 
Japan has visualized such possible crises, has concluded the Japan-US Security 
Treaty, and relied on the cooperation of the United States.   And, over the 50 
long years in the postwar period, it has offered Okinawa, Yokota, and Misawa as 
US military bases and offered huge political, financial, and material aid.   
Logically speaking, the US military must prove itself useful in such crises.   
The US military is in the process of developing a theater missile defense (TMD) 
system, which still entails some technical limitations, but hopefully will have 
the capability to deal with North Korean No Dong and Taepo Dong missiles.   If 
the United States were to betray Japanese expectations under these 
circumstances, we must undertake a fundamental review of the purpose of the 
Japan-US Security Treaty.

    However, just because the Japan-US Security Treaty exists, is it permissible 
for Japan to do nothing and rely completely on the US military in the even of a 
missile crisis?   The United States would probably not allow its youngsters to 
die for a nation which refuses to defend itself.   I believe Japan should 
logically possess the capability to strike enemy missile bases under the strict 
limitation that such action will be restricted to missile crises response.   In 
such a sense, although it is my personal view, I feel it is about time that the 
government announces a "Strategic Plan for Defense Against Ballistic Missile 
Crises."   The plan would apply only in the case of a missile attack on Japan, 
and provide preemptive strike capabilities for use during such crises.   I 
believe the Defense Agency should run a study and select appropriate facilities 
and equipment to establish such attack capabilities in the form of missile 
interception and anti-surface attack capabilities.   Needless to say, such 
actions would be subject to the approval of the Diet.

    A matter that I keenly sense at this time is the issue of defense 
capabilities buildup.   In the past, as a result of extensive debate, the 
Self-Defense Forces have purchased a variety of expensive weapons, such as four 
Aegis destroyers at a cost of 130 billion yen [Y] per ship and more than 200 
F-15 fighter planes for Y15 billion each.   However, if North Korean missiles 
were to fly into Japan, such equipment would be incapable of defending Japan.   
This is a harsh fact.   Undoubtedly, each of these weapons was purchased because 
of a specific need.   I do not intend to quibble about that point at this stage.

    However, if, despite spending so much money in taxes, we are unable to 
defend our beautiful country and wonderful people, it would constitute an 
outrageous situation.   I get the feeling that I hear a chorus of disparaging 
remarks from the public like, "What in the world has the Defense Agency been 
doing in the past?"   Now that a ballistic missile crisis is steadily becoming a 
realistic situation, along with the best possible diplomatic effort, we must 
install an effective ballistic missile interceptor system as early as possible 
and build a comprehensive defense system for use during missile crises inclusive 
of limited ballistic missile base attack capabilities.                  
