Russia 'seriously concerned' over North Korea's nuclear capability

  MOSCOW, November 18 (Itar-Tass) -- Moscow is seriously concerned over 
conflicting reports from Pyongyang about North Korea's "right to have nuclear 
capability," Russian Foreign Ministry spokesman Alexander Yakovenko told 
Itar-Tass on Monday.

  "Russia expects the friendly North Korean leadership to strictly comply with 
all provisions and commitments the fundamental nuclear arms Non-Proliferation 
Treaty implies," the diplomat said.
  He described the Non-Proliferation Treaty as a "prerequisite for global 
strategic stability, peace and security on the Korean Peninsula."
  Yakovenko said, "Russia expects other parties concerned, including the 
signatories to the 1994 agreement, to display restraint and continue honouring 
their international liabilities in full."
  North Korea's statement that has been interpreted by international media as a 
confession to the fact that the country has nuclear weapons has caused a 
controversial reaction in the Russian State Duma too.
  "It is good that North Korea has publicly admitted that it possesses nuclear 
weapons", the head of the Russian Regions faction in the Duma, Oleg Morozov, 
said, adding that Pyongyang's admission will enable the world community to get 
exact information on the Korean nukes as well as consider the steps to be taken 
against its possible uses.

  Russia advocates restrictions on the number of states in the so-called 
"nuclear club of countries," and its expansion is far from reassuring news for 
Moscow, Gennady Raikov, leader of the People's Deputy faction, said.
  In his view, "the fact that the Democratic People's Republic of Korea has 
nuclear weapons may aggravate the international situation".
  Konstantin Kosachov, deputy chairman of the Fatherland All Russia faction, 
called the reports on North Korean nukes "the worst of all scenarios in the 
field of nuclear nonproliferation".

  He believes that the emergence of nuclear weapons on the Korean Peninsula may 
add fuel to the tensions there and derail the unification of the two Koreas.
  Communist Party leader Gennady Zyuganov said almost 40 countries are capable 
of making nuclear arms. He called on international organisations to work out 
common approaches to the problem and apply them to all countries.
  "Israel, too, has a nuclear bomb and politicians in the U.S. are fully aware 
of it," Zyuganov said. He urged the U.S. to stop classifying foreign states as 
"terrorists and friends who can do whatever they want".
  However, the president of the Board of Russian Military Experts, Mikhail 
Kreimer, believes that "the accusations that North Korea is working on a nuclear 
program are purely political".
  He told Itar-Tass that "there is no direct proof that North Korea has any 
nuclear armaments at all, while the radio broadcast, to which the U.S. 
administration is referring, may be a propaganda canard or could have been 
wrongly translated," he noted.
  In his view, "the United States is artificially aggravating the situation and 
seeking an enemy so that its taxpayers will not object to the growing military 
budget".

  "There is yet another aspect to this problem: the American side is renouncing 
its commitments to implement the 1994 international agreement on the 
construction of two light-water nuclear reactors in the Democratic People's 
Republic of Korea. The United States undertook to supply black oil for North 
Korea's thermal power plants until those reactors were commissioned," he noted. 
"This project has still not been implemented, and now the question has been 
raised of stopping the fuel deliveries altogether".
